

Exp	Name: Abiral Pandey
PI	Email:
PI	Phone: 940-242-3303
PI	Current Location: Woonsocket, Rhode Island
PI	Visa Status: US Citizen
Sum	SUMMARY:
Sum	Dynamic individual with 6 years of software development experience in design, development, deployment, maintenance, production and support of web - based and Client-Server business applications using OOP and Java/J2EE technologies.
Sum	Exposure to all phases of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) using Agile, RUP, Waterfall.
Sum	Designed and developed web UI screen using Angular-JS.
Sum	Developed AngularJS Controllers, Services, filters and directives for various modules in the application.
Sum	Knowledge on ETL tools like Kettle Pentaho and Microsoft SSIS tools.
Sum	Created custom directives, decorators and services using AngularJS to interface with both RESTful and legacy network services also DOM applications.
Sum	Experience with MVC frameworks like Struts, SPRING and ORM tools like Hibernate.
Sum	Experienced in working with batch jobs using Spring-Batch, Autosys and Quartz.
Sum	Worked extensively with XML related technologies like XML/XSLT to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML using DOM and SAX parsers for DTD and SCHEMAand also worked with JAX-B.
Sum	Strong experience in J2EE technologies like Java Beans, Servlets, JSP (including custom tags), JSTL, JDBC, Struts, Spring, JMS, JNDI and Multithreading.
Sum	Expertise in web development technologies like HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, JSF, AJAX, Bootstrap JS, Node JS and Angular JS.
Sum	Experienced in RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Jersey framework and SOAP using JAX-WS, Axis-2 framework.
Sum	Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Adapter, Front End Controller, Value object, Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Factory DAO in designing the architecture of large applications.
Sum	Experience in using Maven and Ant build scripts for the project build automation.
Sum	Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like SVN, Clear Case and CVS.
Sum	Expertise in working with various Application Servers such as IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Glassfish, Oracle WebLogic and Apache Tomcat server.
Sum	Good knowledge in using IDE’s such as Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, RAD and STS.
Sum	Expertise in working with Relational databases such as Oracle, PostgreSQL, DB2, MySQL and NoSQL database MongoDB.
Sum	Experience in database design using PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, views and good at writing complex queries for Oracle 10g/11g.
Sum	Good experience in developing test cases with JUnit for Unit testing, Load testing and logging using Log4J.
Sum	Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000 / NT / XP, AIX, Sun Solaris.
Sum	Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.
Sum	Involved in Performance analysis and improvements of the application using tools like Jmeter and using commands on Unix box to resolve deadlocks and improve performance.
Skill	TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Skill	Programming Languages: Java/J2EE, PL/SQL, Unix Shell Scripts
Skill	Java/J2EE Technologies: JavaBeans, collections, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, RMI, EJB
Skill	Frameworks: Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring 2.5/3.0, Web Framework, JSF, Hibernate, iBatis, JPA, Axis-2, Jersey
Skill	Methodologies/Design Patterns: OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, Singleton, DTO Pattern, DAO Pattern, Service Fa ade, Factory Pattern
Skill	Build Automation: Jenkins, Maven, Ant
Skill	Application/Web Servers: IBM Web Sphere 6.x/5.x, BEA Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x
Skill	XML processing: DTD, Schema, JAX-P (DOM, SAX), JAX-B
Skill	Web Services: RESTful, SOAP
Skill	Web Development: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, LADP, JSF, Bootstrap JS, Node JS, Angular JS
Skill	Version Control Tools: CVS, Harvest, IBM Clear case, SVN and GIT
Skill	Databases: Oracle 9i/10g/11g, IBM DB2, SQL Server 2005/2008, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MangoDB
Skill	Messaging Techologies: JMS, IBM MQ
Skill	IDE s: Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, WSAD
Skill	Testing and Logging Frameworks: Junit, Log4j, Mockito, Finesse Tests
Skill	Reporting Tools: Crystal Reports 11, Jasper Reports
Skill	Tools: Rational Rose, MS Visio, XML Spy, TOAD
Skill	Operating Systems: Windows 98/2000/NT/XP, AIX, Sun Solaris, HP-UX
Skill	PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Skill	CVS, Woonsocket, Rhode Island Full Stack Java Developer
Skill	April 2016 – Present
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project using the Agile methodology.
Exp	Used AWS Cloud platform and its features which include EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, EBS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, S3, and Route53.
Exp	Expertise in building rich, interactive user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Node.Js and Angular.Js.
Exp	Gathered and clarified requirements with business analyst to feed into high-level customization design, development and installation phases.
Exp	Used Spring Framework for dependency injection for Action classes using Application Context XML file.
Exp	Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using JSP and Spring Controller.
Exp	Developed business objects using Spring IOC, Spring MVC and Spring AOP. Implemented MVC architecture using JSP Spring, Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.
Exp	Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI and XML.
Exp	Used Collections for Model classes in the DAO layer (Data Access Object) Involved in modifying some changes in DAO layer using Hibernate.
Exp	Created mappings among the relations and written SQL queries using Hibernate.
Exp	Implemented Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.
Exp	Used Entity Beans to persist the data into IBM DB2 database like database access components, Creating Schemas and Tables.
Exp	Used SQL to perform data mapping and backend testing, also documented all the SQL queries for future testing purpose.
Exp	Created process flow for deploying application in Web Sphere application server.
Exp	Managed build, reporting and documentation from the project information using Jenkins, Maven Tool and SVN for version control.
Exp	Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration.
Exp	Used JUnit for testing and used JIRA for tracking bugs.
Exp	Responsible for the dealing with the problem, bug fixing and troubleshooting.
Exp	Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Spring, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, REST, SOAP, XML, Eclipse, PL/SQL, JUnit, Maven Build Tool, DB2, JIRA, Jenkins, SVN and IBM Web Sphere, AngularJS, EBS, AMI, SNS, RDS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation, Auto scaling
Exp	Toll Brothers, Horsham Township, Pennsylvania Software Engineer
Exp	December 2015 - March 2016
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Developed JSP and extensively used tag libraries.
Exp	Designed the system with OOAD methodology using various design patterns like factory method, Singleton, Adaptor, Template etc.
Exp	Implementing and planning the server-side architecture using Spring and Hibernate
Exp	Configured the spring framework for entire business logic layer with XML bean configuration files.
Exp	Preparation of Low Level Designing and High Level Designing and relevant documentation.
Exp	Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts
Exp	experienced in build tools like Micro services, Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.
Exp	Wrote Controller classes in Spring MVC framework in the web layer.
Exp	Produced the shopping cart on the client Front-end using jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3.
Exp	Extensively used Eclipse based STS IDE for building, developing and integrating the application.
Exp	Used Table per hierarchy inheritance of hibernates and mapped polymorphic associations.
Exp	Developed one-much, many-one, one-one annotation based mappings in Hibernate.
Exp	Wrote queries Using Cassandra CQL to create, alter, insert and delete elements.
Exp	Developed DAO service methods to populate the domain model objects using hibernate.
Exp	Used java collections API extensively such as Lists, Sets and Maps.
Exp	Wrote DAO classes using spring and Hibernate to interact with database for persistence.
Exp	Developed components of web services (JAX-WS, JAX-RPC) end to end, using different JAX-WS standards with clear understanding on WSDL, SOAP using various message patterns
Exp	Performed on e-Commerce by using JSF framework and JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5 pages
Exp	Wrote and tested Java Beans to retrieve trading data and subscriber's information from MySQL database server,
Exp	Extensive experience in Angular.JS for application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, route-Providers, factory services, ng-repeat, customizable filter, http get/post methods and directives to realize functionalities like REST service with Ajax call , input validations, searchable and sortable contents.
Exp	Implemented Unit and Integration test cases with JUnit Framework based on Functional Flow.
Exp	Used tools like My Eclipse IDE, configured and deployed the applications onto Web Logic application server
Exp	Configured Log4j for logging and debugging
Exp	Environment: Eclipse, Java J2EE, HTML, JSP, JAX RPC, JAXB, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, Spring MVC, Hibernate, RESTful web services, Apache Tomcat7.0, Cucumber, Cassandra, Junit, Jenkins, Maven, GitHub, XML, Log4j, EJB, MySQL, Ajax.
Exp	Dairy Farmers of America, Kansas City, Missouri Java Developer
Exp	November 2014 – December 2015
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Responsible for developing use cases, class and sequence diagram for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.
Exp	Identifying and design of common interfaces across multiple systems or modules of social insurance.
Exp	Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture. UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams were used.
Exp	Developed J2EE modules using XMI and CORE JAVA.
Exp	Interaction with Business users for user and system acceptance testing.
Exp	Validated the data against the business rules.
Exp	Data access layer is implemented using Hibernate.
Exp	Used Apache POI to generate Excel documents
Exp	Implemented Struts action classes.
Exp	Used Spring Security for Authentication and authorization extensively.
Exp	Utilized Eclipse to create JSPs/Servlets/Hibernate that pulled information from a Oracle database and sent to a front end GUI for end users.
Exp	Used JDBC for Oracle database connection and written number of stored procedures for retrieving the data.
Exp	Developed modules for validating the data according to business rules and used Castor to convert data into array of XML strings and XSLT for transformation.
Exp	Used Hibernate for data persistence.
Exp	Developed SOAP based HTTP requests for communicating with Web Services.
Exp	Was involved in the design of multi-tier architecture using EJB, Servlets and JSP.
Exp	Used Spring Dependency Injection properties to provide loose-coupling between layers.
Exp	Collaborated with Web designers to create the JSP pages, applying HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Struts Tags.
Exp	Extensively worked on debugging using Logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4j.
Exp	Created test plans for unit testing to validate component functionality.
Exp	Environment: Java 1.4.2, J2EE, Servlets, MVC, Web services, Struts, Spring - Core, MVC, Security, Eclipse, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, EJB, JSP, JDBC, JAX-B, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, Log4j, Oracle 10g, Apache POI, Caster, XMI.
Exp	Bank of Utah, Ogden, Utah J2EE Developer
Exp	May 2013 – October 2014
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Designed and developed Servlets and JSP, which presents the end user with form to submit the details of the problem.
Exp	Created SQL statements and triggers for the effective retrieval and storage of data from the database.
Exp	Performed JUnit testing, proposed and implemented performance enhancements, worked with Oracle databases, running SQL scripts and stored procedures.
Exp	Developed Restful based Web Services.
Exp	Was involved in the design of multi-tier architecture using EJB, Servlets and JSP.
Exp	Developed Servlets used to store user information in the database, which makes a JDBC-ODBC connection to the database and inserts the details into to the database.
Exp	Designed and developed a Servlet, which presents the engineer a form to submit solution to particular problem.
Exp	Setting up test environments and configuring various components of the application using JDBC API to establish a connection with oracle database and configuring.
Exp	Designed and developed a Servlet, which allows the end user to query on the problem, makes a JDBC-ODBC connection to the database and retrieve the details regarding the call number and the status of the submitted problem.
Exp	Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Custom tags, JDBC, JUNIT, Restful, Data Source, DAO, VO Patterns, Tomcat 5.0, SQL, Oracle 9i, Linux.
Exp	Epsilon, Irving, Texas Junior Java Developer
Exp	January 2012 – April 2013
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Designed the user interfaces using JSP.
Exp	Developed Custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.
Exp	Developed the application using Struts (MVC) Framework.
Exp	Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Account Transfer using Session EJBs.
Exp	Used Eclipse to writing the code for JSP, Servlets, Struts and EJBs.
Exp	Deployed the applications on Web Logic Application Server.
Exp	Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) and Backend messaging for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.
Exp	Developed the Ant scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.
Exp	Used JDBC for database connectivity to Oracle.
Exp	Worked with Oracle Database to create tables, procedures, functions and select statements.
Exp	Used JUnit Testing, debugging and bug fixing.
Exp	Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and developed WAR framework to alert the client and production support in case of application failures.
Exp	Worked in Rational Unified Process (RUP) Methodology.
Exp	Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, Struts, EJB, JMS, Oracle, HTML, XML, Web Logic, Ant, CVS, Log4J, JUnit, JMS, PL/SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE, UNIX Shell Scripting, Rational Unified Process (RUP).
Edu	Education:
Edu	Bachelor of Computer Science – University of North Texas, Denton, Texas
PI	Achyuth
PI	540-999-8048
PI	achyuth.java88@gmail.com
Obj	OBJECTIVE:
Obj	Around 8 years of strong software experience in design, development, analysis and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD, OOPS) and Java/JEE/J2EE technologies in Financial, Insurance, and Health Sector Domain with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).
Sum	PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:
Sum	Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC).
Sum	Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap.
Sum	Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application
Sum	Hands on experience with Amazon web services (AWS) and Amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers) and Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).
Sum	Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.
Sum	Extensive experience working in Spring framework, Struts framework, ORM Mapping Hibernate framework and web services.
Sum	Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.
Sum	Experience in developing applications using Micro Services architecture.
Sum	Expertise in developing reliable and scalable enterprise applications using Servlets, JSPs, Struts, JSTL, JDBC, AJAX, EJB and Web Services.
Sum	Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as Simple Object Access Protocol(SOAP), Representational State Transfer (REST/ Restful), JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI, Apache CXF, JAXB, XSD, Axis2.
Sum	Excellent knowledge and experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and views using various databases such as MS SQL Server, MySQL, IBM DB2, Oracle databases and NoSQL database systems like Mongo DB.
Sum	Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.
Sum	Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache Active MQ and Apache Camel as JMS provider.
Sum	Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.
Sum	Experience in developing logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.
Sum	Worked on implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC) in using version control tools like Git, Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, CVS (Concurrent Version System).
Sum	Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Jenkins along with Build Plugins like Maven, Gradle and Apache Ant.
Sum	Experienced in the formation and mentoring of project teams working on Agile methodologies to deliver business critical software applications using tools like Jira.
Sum	Experience in web development tools like Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite, and IntelliJ.
Sum	Hands on experience with Windows, UNIX and Linux Environments.
Sum	Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on IBM Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat, Glassfish and JBOSS Servers.
Skill	TECHNICAL SKILLS
Skill	PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Skill	Client: Capital One Mar 17 – Till date
Exp	Location: Mclean, VA
Exp	Role: Full Stack Java Developer
Exp	Description: Capital One is the one of largest banking sector, it has over 480,000 members and is among the top 20 credit unions in the U.S.A. Capital One Home Loans servicing is a diversified bank that offers a variety of checking, savings, mortgage and lending accounts and services to individuals, small businesses and commercial clients.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.
Exp	Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.
Exp	Extensively worked on Responsive Web Design (RWD) page development using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, and JSON.
Exp	Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.
Exp	Used Java 1.8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.
Exp	Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry, also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.
Exp	Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.
Exp	Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.
Exp	Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security.
Exp	Developed RESTful API for assessment indicators module and token based authentication for RESTful services using Spring Security.
Exp	Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution.
Exp	Used Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used XML form to transfer the data.
Exp	Developed the application using J2EE Design Patterns like Business Delegate, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator and DAO.
Exp	Worked and involved in deployment of core platform technologies, techniques, and web app frameworks such as spring, JBOSS, Tomcat, JSON, XML, HTML5, and Web Services.
Exp	Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture.
Exp	Worked on Apache Camel, RabbitMQ for sending messages over queue.
Exp	Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka.
Exp	Used Spring Security and OAuth2.0 for Authentication and Authorization of the application.
Exp	Implemented Spring AOP for declarative transaction management.
Exp	Developed a AWS Lambda function to send a request for internal service end points through API Gateway using apache HTTP Client.
Exp	Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers
Exp	Used Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI.
Exp	Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process.
Exp	Configured pom.xml to deploy the project using Maven.
Exp	Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects.
Exp	Environment: Agile Methodology, Java1.8, Lambda, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, AWS, Micro Services, Oracle, RabbitMQ, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Spring Cloud, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Web-Services, SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture, Redis, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, JAX-B, WebSphere, JIRA, Maven, GIT, RAD, Jenkins, MongoDB, Cassandra,.
Exp	Client: State Farm Jan 16 – Feb 17
Exp	Location: Dallas, TX
Exp	Role: JAVA Full Stack Developer
Exp	Description: Auto Quote Purchase (AQP) application is one of the many applications that are part of SF Auto Systems. Property and Causality being the main forte of State Farm's business the maintenance of all the applications coming under the Auto Systems umbrella is crucial. Auto Quote Purchase (AQP) is one of the many applications that are part of SF Auto Systems. P&C Application support involves production support, defect fixes and minor enhancements based on the SF's requirement. AQP is a web application which is used to gather customer information, generate quote and provides options to purchase the Auto policies.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.
Exp	Created user-friendly GUI interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS.
Exp	Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate& Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.
Exp	Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.
Exp	Developed restful web service APIs using Spring Framework such as Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring AOP and Java Persistence API with a backend PostgreSQL and Cassandra database.
Exp	Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.
Exp	Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.
Exp	Created Restful Web services using Jersey API (JAX-RS) while data exchange was carried out between application and services using JSON.
Exp	Spring MVC, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.
Exp	To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.
Exp	Integrated spring and hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.
Exp	Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.
Exp	Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.
Exp	Used Apache Camel Framework to transform, extract and load the data.
Exp	Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework.
Exp	Implemented request and response objects using SOAP web services and created routes using Apache Camel.
Exp	Used Rest methodology for the service layer interface and used JSON for the data transformation.
Exp	Developed various AJAX and JSON calls for the communication between the server and the UI.
Exp	Developed web services for produce and consumed the services by making Web Service Calls to remote services in different applications.
Exp	Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners
Exp	Established Database Connectivity using Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server.
Exp	Developed the Mapping Resource Files for the database entities.
Exp	Packaged and deployed the application in IBM Web sphere.
Exp	Used IntelliJ as IDE to develop the application and followed the standard features for debugging and running.
Exp	Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.
Exp	Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements
Exp	Used Rational Clear Case for the version control
Exp	Used Maven as the build tool.
Exp	Used J-Unit Testing and Ant Scripts.
Exp	Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in AGILE Methodology.
Exp	Environment: Agile, Java, JDK, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Mongo DB, XML, Spring, Apache Camel, MVC design patterns, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Ant, Maven, Netflix, Rational Clear Case, Web sphere Server, IBM Web Sphere, Apache Camel, SOAP UI, JNDI, Log4J, PostgreSQL, MySQL Server, Google cloud platform, JIRA, RMI, IntelliJ, IDE, LINUX.
Exp	Client: Cigna Healthcare Nov 13– Dec 15 Location: Windsor, CT
Exp	Role: Java Developer
Exp	Description: One view is a web based application helping Customer Services people to view Benefit Plan information for Customers, health care providers. The application helps to resolve; track customer queries online by reducing overall time. The current project is reengineering the old application by replacing outdated Cordiant service layer with Restful Services and Spring Integration frame work improving performance and scalability.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot.
Exp	Writing end-to-end flow i.e. controllers classes, service classes, DAOs classes as per the Spring MVC design and writing business logics using core java API and data structures
Exp	Design, develop & deliver the REST APIs that are necessary to support new feature development and enhancements in an agile environment.
Exp	Used Spring JMS related MDB to receive the messages from other team with IBMMQ for queuing
Exp	Developed presentation layer code, using JSP, HTML, AJAX and JQuery
Exp	Developed the Business layer using spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, and JTA
Exp	Developed the Persistence layer DAO using HIBERNATE
Exp	Worked with Open symphony workflows and delivered work flow module to the client.
Exp	Developed the project using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability
Exp	Developing application module coded on Spring Batch and Apache Camel.
Exp	Written Jenkins pipeline template script in Groovy programming language for the automation of build and deployment process.
Exp	Created groovy scripts to extract transaction volume information and email to management on daily basis.
Exp	Developed unit test cases using Junit framework for testing accuracy of code and logging with SLF4j + Log4j
Exp	Worked with defect tracking system Clear Quest
Exp	Worked with IDE as Spring STS and deployed into spring tomcat server, WebSphere 6 & used Maven as build tool
Exp	Responsible for code sanity in integration stream used Clear Case as version control tool.
Exp	Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, MongoDB, Apache Camel, symphony, JavaScript, JSP, Spring, Spring Batch, Spring web services, XML, UML, JUNIT, IBM WebSphere, Maven, Clear Case, SoapUI, Oracle 11g, Spring JMS, IBM MQ.
Exp	Client: Liberty Mutual Jan 12 - July 13
Exp	Location: Seattle, WA
Exp	Role: Java Developer
Exp	Description: Liberty Mutual Insurance is an American diversified global insurer, and the second-largest property and casualty insurer in the United States. Ecommerce application provides services such as Auto Insurance and home insurance. The application is used for accessibility into the appropriate Agent Center applications and generating quotes and policies, payments and reports.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC).
Exp	Designed project related documents which includes Use case, Class and Sequence diagrams.
Exp	Involved in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements, and creating Detail Design Document.
Exp	Using Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments.
Exp	Extensive experience in developing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors, Collections (Nested tables and arrays), Records, Object types and Database Triggers.
Exp	Created HTML Wireframes based in the Detailed System Specification Document Developed the presentation layer of the application using MVC architecture of spring framework.
Exp	Created DAO classes to interact with DB2 database.
Exp	Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.
Exp	Used JMS API for sending and receiving the messages on the queue.
Exp	Used the spring validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.
Exp	Developed user interface using JSP, Spring Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.
Exp	Developed user interface with Java Server Pages, Ajax support to speed up the application form filling.
Exp	Used Apache Axis as the Web Service framework for creating and consuming Web Service clients using SOAP and WSDL.
Exp	Used Rally for tracking purpose.
Exp	Designed various tables required for the project using DB2 database. Used JBOSS server for deploying the application.
Exp	Used Ant for build, create JAR, WAR, EAR files and deploy the EAR files automatically.
Exp	Used Junit to test the application classes.
Exp	Used Log4J to capture the logging information.
Exp	Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, XML, Agile, Spring, Eclipse IDE, DB2, Rational Rose, Log4j, Junit, Ant, JBOSS, Rally, Apache Axis, Web Service, SOAP, WSDL.
Exp	Client: Soft Pro Systems Ltd. Sep 10 - Dec 11
Exp	Location: Hyderabad, India
Exp	Role: Java Developer
Exp	Description: This project is mainly an Intranet application meant for employees in the organization. They are Intranet mailing System, Chatting, File Transfer and Remote Login. This project is based on the client server methodology.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Involved in the design and development of an entire Module – Guided Set Up. Developed user interface through JSP and Servlets.
Exp	Developed Action classes and Action Forms using the struts framework.
Exp	Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages
Exp	Connected to database through JDBC.
Exp	Extensive experience working with XML (DOM and SAX).
Exp	Used SQL-server to store the items in the database.
Exp	Used Session beans for navigation of steps.
Exp	Used Entity beans for storing the database in to database. Developed Session Beans as the clients of Entity Beans to maintain the Client state.
Exp	Developed Ant Scripts to build and deploy EAR files on to Tomcat Server. Analyzed the EJB performance in terms of scalability by various Loads, Stress tests using Bean- test tool.
Exp	Extensively used Eclipse while writing code as IDE. Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.
Exp	Developed test cases and used Junit for Unit Testing.
Exp	Used CVS for version controlling.
Exp	Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, XML (DOM and SAX), JSP, EJB, JavaScript, CSS, JDBC, Struts, Ant, Web Logic Application Server, WSAD, Eclipse IDE, SQL-Server, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, CVS, PVCS, Junit, Windows.
Exp	Client: Login IT Technologies May 09 - Aug 10 Location: Hyderabad, India
Exp	Role: Java Developer
Exp	Description: PRS or Price reporting system is responsible to publish the rates to the customers and as to maintain the
Exp	users across the FedEx locations and its subsidiaries. It interacts with the customer fusion and existing legacy systems to
Exp	access the customer information and legacy data.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Developed web application using Struts 2.X, JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern
Exp	Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP
Exp	Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.
Exp	Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML.
Exp	Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.
Exp	Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem
Exp	The application was deployed on the Tomcat.
Exp	Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT
Exp	Used CVS as version control system
Exp	Worked on bug fixing and Production Support
Exp	Environment: Java, JDBC, Struts, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J.
Exp	Amrinder Pelia Employer Details
PI	Mail: Mail:
PI	Phone: 703-743-0795
PI	Senior Business Analyst
Sum	Summary:
Sum	Around 10 years of experience in Business process analysis, Business modeling and Business requirements gathering.
Sum	Extensive experience with Banking and Mortgage clients.
Sum	Expert in creating diagrams (Use case diagrams, flow charts, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams), use case document, test plans and test case documents.
Sum	Worked closely with project Stakeholders, SMEs, staff to understand requirements and specifications for new applications along with re-engineering the existing application.
Sum	Experience in interacting across the hierarchy from architects, to data modelers, underwriters and risk analyst.
Sum	Experience in iterative agile project management methodology with Scrum to manage the software development life cycle (SDLC).
Sum	Used MS Project to manage schedules, meet deadlines and plan resources in line with triple constraint. Followed up with weekly Project Status and organized Task Review meetings. Conducted status meetings, managed deadlines, and facilitated prioritization discussions.
Sum	Writing skills in preparing business requirements documents (BRD), system requirements specifications (SRS) and technical design document (TDD) and defining project plans then translating business requirements/user expectations into detailed specifications employing UML.
Sum	Performing GAP analysis to check the compatibility of the existing system infrastructure with the new business requirements,
Sum	Conducting User Acceptance Testing (UAT) verifying performance, reliability and fault tolerance issues. Also familiar with testing tools (QC) to design as well as develop test plans and test scripts.
Sum	Authored business and system requirements analyses and functional specifications with supporting business process flows (data modeling), Traceability matrices, risk analysis and concept of operations for systems utilizing company standards, processes, and procedures.
Sum	Expertise at using MS Visio, MS Project, MS Excel, PowerPoint, and SharePoint.
Sum	Good understanding of software development methodologies such as RUP, JAD, and RAD and hands on experience in formulating JAD sessions.
Skill	Skill Set:
Edu	Education:Bachelors in Applied Sciences and Engineering, Michigan State University, GPA– 3.56
Exp	Professional Experience:
Exp	Fifth Third Bank, Cincinnati, OH Mar 2015 to Present
Exp	Senior Business Analyst/QA Lead
Exp	Fifth Third Bank is one of the nation’s largest diversified financial services organizations providing retail and banking; residential mortgage banking.
Exp	Worked on implementing the IDS Rapport Solution to provide a front-end workflow processsing system integrating with the existing IDS Infolease solution. This solution was used to create contract documents and eliminated the need for several Access database and Excel spreadsheet solutions that existed. This solution aslo integrated with iLien solution for UCC filing. The product increased the efficiency of transactional submittals and documentation and booking functions.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Implemented Traceability Matrix and User Requirement Specification Document (URS) to verify the functionality coverage.
Exp	Extensive use of MS Project, MS SharePoint (used as the library for Project documentation and the communication of Project information).
Exp	Created Mortgage Service Platform (MSP) diagram in MS Visio to understand the big picture of the project.
Exp	Facilitated and managed meeting sessions with committee of SME from various business areas including Mortgage Servicing, Loan Monitoring and Asset Management.
Exp	Responsible for working with product management to translate business objectives into functional requirements, and great user experiences for our customers.
Exp	Created detailed Test plans to check the functionality of Application.
Exp	Participated in QA team and Bug tracking or Defect Review meetings.
Exp	Designed and Developed front end and Back end Test scenarios and Test cases
Exp	Performed manual testing on different Modules of the Application by executing the Test Cases.
Exp	Coordinate with all project team members to ensure project needs are clearly understood and supportable.
Exp	Identify and remove or mitigate obstacles and risks to projects.
Exp	Conducted peer review meetings periodically to keep track of the project’s milestones.
Exp	Assisted the Project Manager with creating detailed project plans and also in developing, scheduling and tracking project timelines.
Exp	Conducted GAP Analysis of current state (As-Is) and proposed state (To-Be) situations and represented in MS Visio.
Exp	Facilitated JAD sessions with the business team and technology team.
Exp	Responsible for leading all aspects of projects from start to finish, including project team definition, resource allocation decisions.
Exp	Developed high level design of new processes and graphically presented along with text based requirements.
Exp	Experience in creating wireframes.
Exp	Created Activity Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams using UML in MS Visio.
Exp	Conducted Previews and User Acceptance Test (UAT) sessions.
Exp	Environment: MS Visio, DOORS
Exp	Mississippi State Division of Medicaid, Jackson, MS May 2013- Feb 2015
Exp	Sr. Business Analyst
Exp	Mississippi Division of Medicaid’s Management Information System (MMIS) had to comply with the CMS mandated Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) requirements. Project was to analyse system impact and perform GAP between current HIPAA 4010 and compliance HIPAA 5010 for state Medicaid Management Information System.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Actively worked on Business requirement gathering, analysis and Data analysis
Exp	Facilitated JAD sessions to collect User Requirements, Business Requirements and Functional Requirements.
Exp	Created Business/User/Functional document using MS Project, MS Word and MS Visio that provided appropriate scope of work for technical team to develop prototype of the overall system.
Exp	Gathered requirements from the administrative staff and business rules for determining member eligibility and successfully converted them into functional requirements for the developments team.
Exp	Created Use Cases, various UML Diagrams and Data Flow Diagrams to determine the data flow via various systems
Exp	Developed and maintained the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) for the project deliverables.
Exp	Proposed the change and reengineering of the ‘AS IS’ Business processes into the ‘TO BE’ process flow
Exp	Involved in the day-to-day implementation of the agile methodology of application development with its various work flows, Artefacts and activities.
Exp	Created Business Rule Comparison (BRC) documents using 4010 / 5010 implementation guides for X12 transactions
Exp	Extensively involved in HIPAA 5010 User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Defined and maintained Test Cases for EDI transactions.
Exp	Thoroughly studied the inherent systems to have a clear understanding of the business processes and associated system workflow.
Exp	Used HP Quality Centre for error reporting and communicating between developers, product support and test team members
Exp	Recommended corrective actions, if necessary, along with the progress against Development/Action Plan routinely to the Project Manager.
Exp	Used MS Share point for sharing documents, calendars and other data between users in different locations.
Exp	Wrote test cases and test plans for the related and assigned scripts according to the test strategies defined in the project and testing team guidelines in Quality centre.
Exp	Assisted in regression testing and did UAT to improve overall quality of the Application.
Exp	Environment: UML, Windows, Agile, Mainframe, SQL, ETL, Data warehouse, Microsoft Office, Test Director, MMIS, MS Access, HTML, XML, Java Script, Java, ASP, DB2.
Exp	Dept of Health, Austin TX May 2012 - April 2013
Exp	Sr. Business Analyst
Exp	I worked as a business analyst in the project intended to make the existing application comply with HIPAA 5010 standards. I was involved in the analysis of EDI transactions 834 and 837I, 837Pbased on HIPAA 4010 and mapping them in order to make the application comply with HIPAA 5010 standards. The module that I worked on allowed the agents to track and manage the status of health benefit claims. My daily responsibilities included performing typical BA duties and additionally included doing QA work such as coordinating the testing process during the testing and UAT phase of the application. I was also responsible in maintaining the application during the “warranty period” and making sure all the issues were solved.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Coordinated with the developers, testers and users on verifying, documenting and addressing any issues with the newly implemented HIPAA 4010 to 5010 conversion at the time.
Exp	Created and maintained data mapping document(s) in reference to the HIPAA mandated transactions834 and 837I, 837P.
Exp	Independently studied the changes being made and helped them implement in the application.
Exp	Conducted and participated in meetings for requirement elicitation and documentation.
Exp	Worked with end users, SMEs, and stakeholders to fully understand issues with the older application and the requirements of the new application being built.
Exp	Interviewed business users to gather requirements and analyzed the feasibility of their needs by coordinating with the project manager and the technical lead.
Exp	Conducted and participated in JAD sessions with the system architect, Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) & the project sponsor for fast & effective system requirement development.
Exp	Used Customer Relationship Management (CRM) in order to meet customer expectation.
Exp	Identified and gathered the data requirements and wrote SQL queries using tools such as My SQL Workbench and Aqua Data Studio.
Exp	Wrote very detailed BRDs and FRDs based on the requirements gathered.
Exp	Used MS Visio to create flow charts, use case diagrams, activity diagrams to illustrate business rules and process flows required for the BRDs and FRDs.
Exp	Wrote test cases for testing the migration of EDI 4010 to 5010 and the processing of EDI transactions 820, 834,837I and 837P.
Exp	Helped coordinate the testing process by helping the QA team prepare for the testing requirements such as environment, writing instructions, organizing walkthroughs, selecting the test groups, etc.
Exp	Used Waterfall methodology throughout the development process and was extensively involved with developers on every stage of the application development.
Exp	Environment: Waterfall, SQL, MS Word, MS Excel, MS Project, MS Visio, BRDs, FRDs, Quality Assurance, UAT
Exp	Prime Therapeutics, Eagan, MN Jan 2011 - Apr 2012
Exp	Business System Analyst
Exp	Prime therapeutics is leading Pharmacy benefit Management Company. I worked with member marketing/customer experience team where I was required to work on all the correspondence materials sent out to the existing members for various reasons. I as primarily focus on Prime mail, Guided health and Specialty.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Worked as a liaison between technology and the business clients to improve business processes and support critical business strategies.
Exp	Utilized industry knowledge to provide executive management with the development and implementation of interactive business tools and strategic analysis.
Exp	Setup and manage inter-departmental status meetings, often including off-shore development and QA teams.
Exp	Scheduled review presentation meetings with developers, System Analysts (SA) and business owners for project completion and approval using Adobe Connect.
Exp	Understood the Business Logic, User Requirements & developed Design & User Interface Specifications
Exp	Worked with the stakeholders to understand the features they wanted to be implemented in the new version such as new notification options, account features, better sorting of the transaction list, preferred UI changes, etc.
Exp	Worked with SMEs, business users and technical leads in understanding and documenting issues with the older version of the application.
Exp	Wrote SQL queries for database inquiries whenever needed. Worked with System Admin for any database related task such as creating production scrubs, database access for team members, any issues, etc.
Exp	Used Agile methodology throughout the project and extensively involved in all stages of development.
Exp	Helped update Product Backlog whenever needed and also created Sprint logs by working with the team lead.
Exp	Conducted multiple meetings in the middle of the sprint to solve any issues encountered during the sprint.
Exp	Logged issues and presented them during the sprint reviews for discussion.
Exp	Designed and finalized mockups using Axure. This helped the team in better understanding proposed changes.
Exp	Helped in coordinating UAT phase for every sprint.
Exp	Involved in logging post-deployment issues and making sure they were addressed as per their urgency and priority.
Exp	Successfully completed the project within time and budget despite having a very tight schedule.
Exp	Environment: Agile, SCRUM, MS Visio, MS Project, Axure, SQL, My SQL Workbench. HEDIS, Lotus notes
Exp	PNC Bank, Norristown, PA Oct 2008 to Dec 2010
Exp	Business Analyst
Exp	The project was aimed at successfully implementing a system that provides an integrated, shared view of the customer across the enterprise that enforces and encourages consistent customer data. The goal was to increase efficiency and customer service through the development of a user-friendly, web-based banking information system, which will allow for maintenance of a centralized database for the managers of Bank.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Conducted GAP Analysis to identify key areas of concern and addressed them with the Business team. Documented the AS-IS and TO-BE processes.
Exp	Actively engaged client and third party integration partners in requirements gathering and validation.
Exp	Developed business Use Cases using UML for new product functionality after conducting requirements elaboration sessions with client teams.
Exp	Used Rational Unified Process for the Software Development Life Cycle of this project.
Exp	Documented business and functional requirements
Exp	Provided assistance in reviewing, analyzing and evaluating business requirements, user needs and functions with the objective of improving business processes and procedures.
Exp	Generated process flow diagrams
Exp	Maintained an issue log and driven issues to closure
Exp	Worked closely with the development team to make sure all the requirements were covered.
Exp	Maintained versioning in requirements
Exp	Environment: MS Visio, Rational Requisite Pro, Quality Center
PI	AMULYA KOMATINENI
PI	(515)309-1612
Sum	8+ years of experience in IT industry worked in all phases of software development life cycle from requirements gathering to the production and successfully implemented several projects.
Sum	PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:
Sum	Expert working knowledge in using methodologies Agile Methodology & Software Development Life Cycle.
Sum	Having work experience in different domains like Healthcare, Banking, Finance, Telecom, and Retail.
Sum	Developed applications using Java8 features like lambda expressions and functional interfaces.
Sum	Proficient in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, ReactJs, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags and JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS.
Sum	Experienced in Client-side validations using Ajax in NodeJS, AngularJS, dash boards reports using BackboneJS.
Sum	Expert in Java/J2EE technologies such as Struts, Spring Framework, JSP, EJB, Hibernate and Webservice.
Sum	Developed applications with Spring using technologies Spring Core, MVC, DAO, ORM, Boot, Heroku, Security, Integration, Spring Zuul, Spring Eureka, Spring Hystrix, Spring Ribbon.
Sum	Used Spring Boot Acurator to monitor and manage your application and to interact with different HTTP endpoints such as health, bean details, version details, configurations.
Sum	Build, Test and developed application from Docker containers and deployed into PCF environment.
Sum	Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping , MyBatis SQL Maps, Slick, and Java Ultra-Lite Persistence.
Sum	Expertise in back-end/server side Java technologies such as webservice, JPA, JMS, JDBC.
Sum	Expert in using SOA and Webservice Technologies and Tools like Webservice, SOAP, REST, UDDI, SOAP UI.
Sum	Experience in XML related technologies like XML, DTD, XSL, XSLT, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP, SAX and DOM Parsers.
Sum	Adapt in server side development skills using Apache and good knowledge of database connectivity (Data Source) for SQL databases like Oracle, MySQL and NoSQL like MongoDB, Cassandra.
Sum	MongoDB is used to develop dynamic queries on documents using a document based query language.
Sum	Expertise in using Cassandra for achieving denormalization through features like collections.
Sum	Hands on experience on Amazon Webservice provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB (Load Balancers), RDS, VPC, Route53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS.
Sum	Used Microservice with Spring Boot through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.
Sum	Expertise in Microservice using Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud to develop loosely coupled processes.
Sum	Expertise in deploy J2EE applications on IBM WebSphere/Web Logic Application Servers, Tomcat and JBOSS.
Sum	Used Scala for anonymous functions to increase productivity, applications scalability, and reliability.
Sum	Familiar with Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory Design, MVC, Data Access Objects, , Adapter, Service Locator, Session Facade, Observer, DAO, service proxy and circuit breaker.
Sum	Used Apigee for enterprise business use APIs to securely share data and services across various devices.
Sum	Expertise in Docker containers, leveraging Linux Containers and AMI's to create DockerImages/containers.
Sum	Used Swagger for designing and describing APIs and for keeping the API design and documentation in sync.
Sum	Expertise in working on building tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle, Groovy, Log4j .
Sum	Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, WinCVS, CVS, SVN, VSS and Rational Clear Case.
Sum	Experience in Webservice Technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and Restful.
Sum	Experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development, SCRUM, and Pair Programming.
Sum	Developing Unit & Integration testing with JUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Camel, Selenium, Jasmine and Mockito.
Sum	Used Selenium as an automated testing for web applications across different browser and platforms.
Skill	Technical Skills:
Exp	PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Exp	Client: Liberty Mutual, Dover, NH September 2017 – Till Date
Exp	Role: JAVA Full Stack Developer
Exp	Description: Liberty Mutual is an insurance company which offers auto & vehicle insurance, property insurance, life insurance and other insurances where user can manage their policies and file claims online. Company have few external partners where they upload and download necessary data. Our project is to process the transfer of file. Customer and Admin portals are used to trace and configure the transfer. Web Based File Transfer(WBFT) is developed to interact with liberty mutual teams by external trading partners using user interface.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, and Bootstrap with ReactJS interaction.
Exp	Used various JQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors, and Gulp as a task runner.
Exp	Used Node Package Manager(NPM) online repository to install and update the dependencies.
Exp	Built REST by building NodeJS in the back-end to handle requests sent from the jQuery Ajax calls.
Exp	Used Java 8 Lambda expressions to facilitate functional programming and for simplifying the development.
Exp	Developed classes using core java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Memory Management.
Exp	Used Multithreading to develop various helper classes in programming to improve overall performance.
Exp	Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for various environments.
Exp	Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka to monitor services from Spring Boot console.
Exp	Used NGINX as a reverse proxy with the Spring Netflix components like Eureka, Ribbon, and Spring Cloud.
Exp	Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes and Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservice.
Exp	Defined Hibernate Named Queries for Batch operations while defined Criteria Queries for Microservice.
Exp	Microservice have been built using Spring Boot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.
Exp	Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.
Exp	Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger Lambda Functions Including EC2.
Exp	Developed Spring Bach for AWS S3 rules like User Creation, Folder Permission, and deletion of file
Exp	Used PL/SQL and Oracle databases to store the information about the file transaction, sender, and receiver.
Exp	Developed several REST webservice which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications. RESTful webservice using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.
Exp	Exposed and consumed SOAP based Webservice to communicate between systems.
Exp	Developed several SOAPS based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability and JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.
Exp	Used Apache Kafka for building real time data pipelines and for storing data in a distributed cluster.
Exp	Experience in working with messaging systems like Kafka, Event Sourcing, and Active MQ.
Exp	Used SOAP UI for Functional Testing, Performance Testing, Regression Testing and to test REST & SOAP.
Exp	Used Datahub dashboard to search and filter the transactions and used elastic search as a search engine.
Exp	Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.
Exp	Developed Unit test cases using Junit, Mockito and Bamboo for continuous integration.
Exp	Used Docker to collaborate code, run and deliver more securely for both Linux, Windows Server.
Exp	Used log4j for logging and GIT, SVN for project management and version management.
Exp	Functional testing of the front-end applications is done using Selenium (IDE and Web Driver).
Exp	Created Clusters and instances in WebSphere 7.0 Network Deployment to support high availability, fail over and implemented horizontal clustering.
Exp	Environment: J2EE, ReactJs, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Ajax, NodeJS, Gulp, Core Java, Spring IOC, Spring MVC,
Exp	Spring Batch, Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Microservice, Eureka Server, NGINX, Swagger-UI,
Exp	Apache Kafka, AWS Cloud, AWS Lambda, S3, EC2, Scala, Datahub, REST Webservice, JAX-WS, SOAP UI,
Exp	JDBC, PL/SQL, ActiveMQ, JIRA, Bamboo, SVN, GIT, log4j, Junit, Selenium, JMS Queues, WebSphere.
Exp	Client: Express Scripts, St. Louis, MO April 2016 – August 2017
Exp	Role: JAVA Full Stack Developer
Exp	Description: Express Scripts provides integrated pharmacy benefit management services including network-pharmacy, claims processing, home delivery pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy benefit management through its subsidiary Accredit, benefit-design consultation, drug-utilization review, formulary management, medical and drug data analysis services to manage drug plans for health plans, self-insured employers and government agencies (both as administrator of employee benefits and public assistance programs).
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using AngularJS, JQuery, CSS3 and HTML5.
Exp	Involved in designing and developed presentation layer using Ajax, jQuery, and third-party libraries.
Exp	Used various JQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.
Exp	Used Apache Cordova to build native mobile applications using HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript.
Exp	XQuery provides the means to extract and manipulate data from XML documents or any data source that can be viewed as XML.
Exp	Used Adobe Experience manager(AEM) to manage and deliver digital experiences across websites.
Exp	Used Groovy for various markup languages such as XML, HTML, and support for regular expressions.
Exp	Used Java 8 Lambda expressions to facilitate functional programming and for simplifying the development.
Exp	Used Java8 Stream API for Parallel execution in the Collections framework module of core java.
Exp	Developed classes using core java concepts like Multithreading, Concurrency, Memory Management.
Exp	Used Multithreading to develop various helper classes in programming to improve overall performance.
Exp	Used Spring DI, annotations, and MVC to implement business layer and navigation part of application.
Exp	Used Spring Boot Actuator to externalize application's configuration properties for various environments.
Exp	Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka to monitor services from Spring Boot console.
Exp	Defined Hibernate Named Queries for Batch operations while defined Criteria Queries for Microservice.
Exp	Microservice have been built using Spring Boot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.
Exp	Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.
Exp	Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger other Lambda Functions Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.
Exp	Database required for creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes, constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.
Exp	Used Cassandra to handle huge amount of data across many servers with out single point of failure.
Exp	Implemented service layer on the top of Cassandra using Core Java, Data Sax API and Restful API.
Exp	Used PostgreSQL for multi version concurrency control and transaction.
Exp	Developed several REST webservice which produces both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile applications. RESTful webservice using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.
Exp	Exposed and consumed SOAP based Webservice to communicate between systems.
Exp	Developed several SOAPS based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability and JMeter to test performance of SOAP protocol.
Exp	Used Redis as in memory database, for storing and fetching data in memory to increase the performance.
Exp	Used Apache Kafka for building real time data pipelines and for storing data in a distributed cluster.
Exp	Worked on Drools Rule Engines with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.
Exp	Used SOAP UI for Functional Testing, Performance Testing, Regression Testing and to test REST & SOAP.
Exp	Used Apigee for web-scale, enterprise flexibility on premise and hybrid deployment on single code base.
Exp	Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.
Exp	Developed Unit test cases using Junit, Mockito and Jenkins for continuous integration.
Exp	Used Apache Camel for integrating different applications with the enterprise design pattern.
Exp	Used Kubernetes for automating deployment, scaling and management of containerized applications.
Exp	Used Docker to collaborate code, run and deliver more securely for both Linux, Windows Server.
Exp	Developed Maven scripts and builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.
Exp	Used log4j for logging and GIT, SVN for project management and version management.
Exp	Functional testing of the front-end applications is done using Selenium (IDE and Web Driver).
Exp	Developed, Tested and Debugged the Java, JSP using Eclipse RCP.
Exp	Created Clusters and instances in WebSphere 7.0 Network Deployment to support high availability, fail over and implemented horizontal clustering.
Exp	Environment: J2EE, AngularJS, jQuery, CSS3, HTML5, Ajax, Core Java, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring
Exp	Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Microservice, Eureka Server, Swagger-UI, Apache Kafka, AWS Cloud,
Exp	AWS Lambda, S3, EC2, Scala, MongoDB, REST Webservice, JAX-WS, SOAP UI, JDBC, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL,JIRA,
Exp	GIT, SVN, log4j, Maven, Apache Camel, Junit, Mockito, Jenkins, JMS Queues.
Exp	Client: Commerce Bank, Kansas City, MO Jan 2015 – Mar 2016
Exp	Role: Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer & Full Stack Developer
Exp	Description: The project was to enhance the existing online application with A/C Information, Funds
Exp	Transfer, Payment Service, Credit Card Services, Investment Services, Rates Online Application Forms,
Exp	and Customer Service. Development was based on Spring MVC architecture.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Followed Agile software development paired programming, Test Driven Development, and Scrum meetings.
Exp	Developed using new features of Java 1.8 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.
Exp	Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, jQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJS interaction.
Exp	Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS framework including MVC architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives, and custom filters.
Exp	Worked with java Swing GUI controls for developing a module in the front-end part.
Exp	Used Java-J2EE patterns like Model View Controller, Singleton, Data Access Objects, factory patterns.
Exp	Used Core Java concept like Multithreading, Concurrency for performance and memory tuning.
Exp	Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status.
Exp	Spring MVC Framework IOC design pattern is used to have relationships between application components.
Exp	Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes and Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservice.
Exp	Developed Spring Quartz jobs to run the backend jobs and generated reports.
Exp	Used Hibernate for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.
Exp	Developed SOAP based JAX-WS Webservice interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability
Exp	Developed Microservice and worked on Spring Boot, deployed applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry.
Exp	Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database.
Exp	Used PL/SQL to extract data from the database, delete data and reload data on Oracle DB.
Exp	Developed Applications using Rule Engines- JBoss Drools 4.x to validate the business User Roles.
Exp	Worked with Apache Camel as a standalone application by deploying in JBOSS application server.
Exp	Used Docker to deploy applications using containers to allow package up application with all configuations.
Exp	Used Spring Boot to interact through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers
Exp	Worked on development and operations to facilitate deployment of components over AWS using Jenkins.
Exp	Used SVN, GIT for the version management and for version controlling software and JIRA for issue tracking.
Exp	Environment: Java 1.8, HTML5, CSS3, iQuery, Bootstrap, AngularJs, Swing, Threading, AWS cloud, Spring MVC,
Exp	Spring Boot, Spring Quartz, Hibernate Framework, Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, JAX-WS, Microservices, PL/SQL, Oracle DB, Cassandra, JBoss Drools 4.x, Docker, JMS, Maven, Jenkins, Apache Camel, SVN, JIRA.
Exp	Client: E-Trade Financial Corporation, Exchange Place July 2012 – Dec 2014
Exp	Role: Sr. JAVA/J2EE Developer
Exp	Description: E-Trade Financial Corporation is a U.S based financial services company headquartered in
Exp	New York. It is a holding company, the major business of which is an online discount stock brokerage
Exp	service for self-directed investors.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Prepared Analysis document and followed AGILE software development with Scrum methodology.
Exp	Developed the application on NodeJS platform using JavaScript programming.
Exp	Used JavaScript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface.
Exp	Applied data transformation rules to transform code from one format to another format using NodeJS.
Exp	Created the Nodejs express server to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end.
Exp	Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object.
Exp	Extensive experience using framework APIs like Struts, SPRING, iBatis and Hibernate.
Exp	Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC, SPRING DAO, SPRING ORM and Spring Integration.
Exp	Involved in the development of backend Logics or data access logic using Oracle DB & JDBC.
Exp	Developed API using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database.
Exp	Expertise in Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), EJB, Serialization, and Java Beans.
Exp	Worked extensively on SPRING MVC framework to develop new internal web application.
Exp	Used Spring AOP components for the Logging, Exception handling and Transactional Models.
Exp	Enforce compliance with dynamic processing and security policies by using Mule ESB.
Exp	Developed Spring boot application with microservice and deployed it into AWS using EC2 instances.
Exp	Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.
Exp	Design PL/SQL batches using Core JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling.
Exp	Test API responses for WCS changes deployed on continuous basis, validate Green Box and MongoDB data.
Exp	Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework and used JIRA for tracking bugs.
Exp	Developed and executed SQL queries for testing database integrity and for data analysis using Selenium.
Exp	Developed automated regression test cases in Selenium WebDriver using Java programming language.
Exp	Used Maven to build and generate code analysis reports and JENKINS for continuous integration.
Exp	Used WebLogic for design, development, and deployment of applications.
Exp	Environment: Java, J2EE, SPRING, Hibernate, Struts, WebLogic, Restful, JQuery, AJAX, Ext JS, JavaScript, AngularJs, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Microservice, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JIRA, Angular, GWT, JDBC, AWS, MongoDB, NodeJS, Adobe (CQ5), Bootstrap, Core Java, jBPM, NoSQL, UML, Eclipse, Junit, Maven, Agile, SOA, JIRA, JENKINS, Selenium.
Exp	Client: US Cellular - Chicago, IL April 2011 – June 2012
Exp	Role: Java Developer
Exp	Description: US Cellular is the fifth-largest full-service wireless carrier in the United States, providing national network coverage and industry-leading innovations designed to elevate the customer experience. The Chicago-based carrier has a strong line-up of cutting-edge devices that are all backed by a high-quality network in big and small cities and rural communities, and currently.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.
Exp	Designed and implemented web module using SPRING MVC.
Exp	Designed & Developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.
Exp	Develop high-level class diagrams, sequence diagrams, and implement the same in Java, SPRING, and SOAP.
Exp	Developed web screens in JSP, JSTL, CSS3 and client side validation using JavaScript and JQuery.
Exp	Used Struts validation and tiles framework in the presentation layer and tags to simplify complexities.
Exp	Developed JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages. Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.
Exp	Used SPRING ORM module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer.
Exp	Used SPRING AOP in exception handling, which reduces the development time to handle the exceptions.
Exp	Developed SOAP based Webservice using JAX-WS and tested the webservice with SOAPUI.s
Exp	Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management.
Exp	Used STS (SPRING Tool Suite) as software development platform for developing the whole application.
Exp	Used SVN for the version management and for version controlling software.
Exp	Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven and created selenium automation scripts using Test NG.
Exp	Performed functional testing to identify critical points and automated it by using Selenium web driver.
Exp	Unit and integration test cases are designed using Junit and Log4j for log error, info and debug messages.
Exp	Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology.
Exp	Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).
Exp	Project builds with Maven and Eclipse as IDE for application development and integration of frameworks.
Exp	Used Apache Tomcat as application server to deploy the application.
Exp	Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, Spring, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate, Soap, SPRING, Struts, XML/XSL, DB2, JUnit, JSTL, Jira, Eclipse, SOAP Webservice, Selenium, TDD, SOAP UI, AJAX-WS RAD, Log4j, SQL, Maven, Tomcat, Log4j, WebLogic.
Exp	Client: Footlocker - New York, NY Oct 2009 – Mar 2011
Exp	Role: JAVA/J2EE Developer
Exp	Description: This is an internet based online shopping website in which products will be sold electronically involving buyers and sellers. The application also has googled map to represent the address. The products that this application sell, or buy are related to electronic products, consumer products and household products.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.
Exp	Developed JSP, HTML5, XHTML5, CSS3 pages for modified views worked on responsive web design.
Exp	Wrote Code to interact with back-end JAVA, AJAX, JSON.
Exp	Used AJAX with JQuery to parse JSON object to dynamically overlay contents on web pages.
Exp	Used JSF components and custom styles to convert model output to a tabular schedule view for trainees.
Exp	Responsible for system analysis, design and development, which is built on top of J2EE and SPRING MVC.
Exp	Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile Methodology.
Exp	Developed code for obtaining bean references in SPRING framework using Dependency Injection.
Exp	Developed DAO layer using Hibernate and SPRING and implemented the web tier using SPRING MVC.
Exp	Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as DAO pattern, MVC pattern, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.
Exp	Involved in consuming and developing RESTful Webservice using SPRING MVC and Hibernate.
Exp	Implemented Maven Script to create JAR, WAR, EAR and deploy the entire project onto the WebSphere.
Exp	Used Oracle SQL developer for the writing queries or procedures in SQL.
Exp	Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems and GIT, SVN for version control.
Exp	Used WebSphere as the Application Server to deploy the application.
Exp	Used JUnit for the unit testing of various modules.
Exp	Environment: Java/J2EE, Eclipse, JSP, SOAP, RESTful, JMS,AJAX, JSON, SPRING, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, HTML5, XHTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSF, WebSphere, Oracle SQL Developer, Maven, Agile scrum, Integration tool, Log4J, GIT, JUnit.
Exp	Client: YANA Software Pvt., LTD - Hyderabad, INDIA. Sep 2008- Sep 2009
Exp	Role: JAVA/J2EE Developer
Exp	Description: The product was online banking system which provides personal savings details to the clients. It offers a wide range of financial clients and as per users account status offers him to take up the new schemes. Upon the user request it generates the corresponding requests and sends to the user.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Developed presentation screens by using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.
Exp	Implemented Model View Controller (MVC-2) architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Struts Framework and used for server side validation..
Exp	Performed client side validations using JavaScript.
Exp	Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer.
Exp	Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.
Exp	Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT.
Exp	Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms.
Exp	Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, Struts Logic tags and Struts tag libraries.
Exp	Involved in developing SQL queries, stored procedures, and functions.
Exp	Creation of database objects like tables, views using oracle tools like Toad, and SQL* plus.
Exp	Involved in writing Stored Procedure in using PL/SQL.
Exp	Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.
Exp	Deployed application in Tomcat and developed using Rational Application Developer RAD.
Exp	Environment: Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, Servlets 2.5, JSP, JMS, CVS, JavaScript, XSL, XSLT, PL/SQL, Junit, Tomcat, Oracle 10g.
PI	Anil Krishna Mogalaturthi
PI	681-888-2999
Sum	Professional Summary
Sum	Highly inspired software professional with over 8 years of experience in all stages of systems development life cycle including business requirements gathering, design, data conversions, programming, system integration / user acceptance testing.
Sum	Senior Java/J2EE Developer with around 8 years of experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Web and Client/Server and Enterprise Application development using Java and J2EE Technologies.
Sum	Strong experience in all the phases of software development cycle (SDLC) including UI design, architecture, identification of corporate needs, user interaction, deployment, testing, documentation and maintenance.
Sum	Extreme experience in architecting and deploying of fault tolerant, highly available, cost effective and secure servers in AWS and MS Azure.
Sum	Developed Networking policies for Docker containers. Worked on open source development tools like Docker Containers, Mesos and Kubernetes. Also, worked on GitHub.
Sum	Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge in object oriented concepts like Data structures, Multithreading, Concurrency, Exceptional Handling, Collection API's to implement various features.
Sum	Hands-on experience in working with web based applications using Java, J2EE, JDBC, Struts, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JMS, Angular JS, SQL etc.
Sum	Good knowledge on the Spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Webflow, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring Forms.
Sum	Strong knowledge on Hibernate ORM framework. Used Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Hibernate Caching, Transactions, Sessions, Criteria’s.
Sum	Used Persistence frameworks, Hibernate3.x, JPA to map, POJOs to a relational database.
Sum	Excellent working experience with various frameworks like Struts, ATG.
Sum	Experience with ATG Content Administration (ATG BCC) and Endeca Search.
Sum	Technology expertise to support design and implementation work using ATG applications.
Sum	Experience working with Front End Technologies like HTML, HTML5, DHTML, XPATH, XHTML, JSTL, JSP, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, CSS3, XSLT, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, React JS, Node JS.
Sum	Strong working knowledge in dealing with Web services like SOAP and Restful Web Services.
Sum	Strong knowledge in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and publishing Web Services that include several components like JAX-WS, Framework implementing by Axis2, Apache CXF.
Sum	Involved in development of SOAP web services using WSDL, JAXB, CXF, AXIS, JAX-WS and Restful web services using JAX-RS, CXF and JERSEY APIs.
Sum	Experience in building Microservices with the help of Spring Boot and developed Spring based applications with very less configuration.
Sum	Good knowledge in XML related technologies like XML, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, XSL, XHTML, XPATH, JAXB, JAXP and RSS.
Sum	Expertise in writing test cases with JUnit and TestNG using Mockito.
Sum	Good experience on Enterprise Java beans(EJB) like stateless Session EJB, MDB, Entity Beans.
Sum	Extensive Experience in retrieving and manipulating data from backend using Database (Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, NOSQL(MongoDB), Sybase) SQL queries, PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Sequences, Triggers, Views and Packages
Sum	Experience with Continuous Integration, version control and build tools such as Ant, Maven, Jenkins, SVN (Sub Version), CVS for building and deploying applications.
Sum	Expertise in different IDEs like Eclipse, My Eclipse, STS (Spring Tool Suite), RAD, TOAD, SQL.
Sum	Developed, tested and deployed applications in UNIX, Linux and Windows Environments.
Sum	Experience with various development methodologies such as Waterfall, Test Driven development (TDD), Behavioral Driven Development (BDD) and Agile (SCRUM).
Sum	Hands on experience with concurrency Multi-Threading and Collections frameworks.
Sum	Experience in creating, maintaining and cleanup the containers on Docker.
Sum	Used Docker as a new level of simplicity to define and create applications or services by encapsulating them in containers.
Sum	Used Docker containers for eliminating a source of friction between development and operations.
Sum	Good knowledge in Cloud computing infrastructure such as Amazon web Services (AWS). Worked on EC2 and S3, ELB.
Sum	Knowledge on Docker to create Containers using Docker file and using Docker compose.
Sum	Excellent skills in programming using wide variety of languages and ability to adapt new latest technologies & work in Multi-platform environment.
Sum	Has the motivation to take independent responsibility and be a productive team member,
Sum	accompanying a strong programming and analytical background.
Skill	TECHNICAL SKILLS:
Exp	PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Exp	SYSINTELLIINC, SANDIEGO, CA.
Exp	FEBURARY 2016 – TILL DATE
Exp	FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER
Exp	MEDINTELLI Product is certified electronic health records for ambulatory practices. Medintelli Electronic Health Record (EHR) solution makes it easy transition from paper to electronic health records. We provide a complete Electronic Medical Records (EMR) solution that is easy to use with fully integrated Medical Practice Management and patient portal solution. Through the patient portal, patients can securely access their medical records, view test results, pay bills, and schedule appointments from anywhere, at any time via the Internet and create a HIPAA-compliant paperless environment.
Exp	Patient Health Records (PHR): Manages patients in this module. The patients have full access to their records from this portal. They can schedule/cancel an appointment, view lab records, alerts, medication, prescriptions from this module.
Exp	Front desk portal: The front desk portal manages different modules. In this module, they can schedule an appointment; check the validation of insurance billing.
Exp	Doctor portal: The portal is integrated with different modules. The doctor can have the electronic medical records with HIPPA compliance. Doctor can get alert on history, allergies and complication of a patient. From this portal, a secure direct access is provided to transcription portal.
Exp	Grouping and Matching: With this you can maintain groups. This in turn eases the ability to match the regulations setup by HIPPA. You can create searchable groups and categorize applicants based on your requirements.
Exp	Smart Communication: Since communication is a key aspect of healthcare process, this system gives you the flexibility of communicating via email, phone, and fax. This piece is tightly integrated with the software and can be invoked and used from very minor use to critical pieces. You can set reminders, send group messages, can send smart responses etc. We have tight integration with PDAs and Smart phones/ devices and give you the flexibility to manage communication with these devices anytime/anywhere.
Exp	Compliance & Reporting: You have lots of built in report types that can tell you everything you want to know about your patients, Customers and job order. You also can generate custom reports for any specific purposes. Compliance reports dramatically reduce time spent gathering regulatory information for government and other reporting requirements.
Exp	Other System Integration: Integration to other systems is very important to any new software system. With this we can integrate our system to variety of systems like Lab integrations, Electronic prescriptions
Exp	Responsibilities
Exp	Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using Agile Model.
Exp	Actively Involved in designing the outline of project, understanding of business necessities and interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project.
Exp	Build Microservices For Delivery of software product across the Enterprise.
Exp	Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring(MVC)Framework and combined with ORM(Hibernate) framework.
Exp	Developed application modules using Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring Beans, Dependency Injection, with database interface using Hibernate.
Exp	Involved in the design and development of Batch Jobs using Spring Batch Architecture. Used Multithreading to enable multiple operations to be performed simultaneously.
Exp	Tested Rest APIs in Spring-Controller at backend for JSON data using Postman.
Exp	Involved in developing code to convert a SOAP response in to a JSON object and construct a tree in UI.
Exp	Used java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, Concurrency to develop business logic
Exp	Used Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.
Exp	Experience in Spring Security and Spring MVC frameworks, and Hibernate ORM framework.
Exp	Used Spring BOOT to create stand-alone spring applications.
Exp	Used Spring Inversion of Control, to make application easy to test and integrate.
Exp	Used DAO classes with Spring Controllers.
Exp	Developed LDAP server configuration file to enable encryption support for password storage.
Exp	Developed GUI using Adobe Flex, Exaltation Script and CSS.
Exp	Used servlets as front controllers, jQuery, AngularJS, JSP, HTML and CSS on front end and JavaScript, jQuery for client-side validations.
Exp	Created proof-of-concept using responsive web design, Node.js, React JS, HTML5 and CSS3.
Exp	Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Restify to mock a Restful API.
Exp	Utilized Spring Annotations and XML Configuration for Dependency Injection.
Exp	Wrote Rest-Controller w.r.t RESTful standards in Spring MVC to connect model with view.
Exp	Implemented web services for communicating using SOAP.
Exp	Experience in Migrating the WebLogic/Jboss servers from Development to Stage and Stage to Production.
Exp	Knowledge of Jboss Messaging Persistence Manager.
Exp	Used GIT to maintain and modify the code and configurations related to Jboss. Used Bamboo linked with GIT repositories.
Exp	Trimmed the Jboss EAP to create the slim version of Application Server and secured the Jboss application server.
Exp	Provided connections using spring with Hibernate to the database and developed SQL queries to manipulate the data.
Exp	Used Spring DAO concept to interact with oracle database using Hibernate Template.
Exp	Developed and consumed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) for FTP between multiple applications as per the business life cycle.
Exp	Used Maven and Gradle to build the project and JUnit to develop unit test cases
Exp	Expertise in using JUNIT for Unit testing, Log4J for logging and debugging purposes, warning info on the server console and Version controller SVN to maintain code versions and documentation.
Exp	Used Web Logic Application Developer for building, testing and deploying application locally.
Exp	As part of the automation process used Selenium features like taking screenshots, Actions, handling frames, scrolling, alerts etc.
Exp	Responsible in identifying defects in application using JProbe and Load Testing using JMeter.
Exp	JProfiler to profile the application before we release and for monitoring purpose.
Exp	Interacted with testing team to fix defects.
Exp	Involved in bug fixes, enhancements and code refactoring.
Exp	Hands on experience in EC2, VPC, Subnets, Routing tables, Internet gateways, IAM, Route53, VPC peering, S3, ELB, RDS, Security Groups, Cloud Watch, SNS on AWS.
Exp	Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services AWS platform instances using Chef Configuration management
Exp	Provided user Access Management for right user from Identity Access Management(IAM).
Exp	Installing, Configuration and administering Jenkins with continuous Integration tool on LINUX machines along with adding/updating plug-in such as SVN, GIT, Maven along on deploying artifacts using XL Deploy, Amazon.
Exp	For Project Pipelines/workflows system used Jenkins as CI Tool.
Exp	Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJs, Node JS Web Logic Application Server, Spring batch, Spring security, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Framework 4.2, JSON, Ruby, Jboss, Hibernate 5.x, LDAP, XML, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, Action Script3.0, NodeJS, Jenkins, IAM, MXML, JSP, HTML, Log4j, Maven, Jenkins, AWS, Docker, SVN, GitHub, JProfiler, SOAP, Soap-UI 4.6.
Exp	DIXONS CAREPHONE PLC, DUBLIN, IRELAND
Exp	APRIL 2013-2015 DECEMBER
Exp	Mid-Level Java/J2EE Developer
Exp	Dixons Carphone Warehouse is a leading Business-to-business(B2B) services channeling through Connected World Services, CurrysPCWorld Business and Carphone Warehouse Business. Our role is to provide payroll, human resources and benefits outsourcing solutions. The objective of the project is to develop a payroll application which supports independent contractors and Industry taxes, and supports some of the US territories.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Designed and developed web-based software using Spring MVC Framework and Spring Web Flow.
Exp	Participated in Agile (Scrum) methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work.
Exp	Maintained the spring configuration files in web.xml.
Exp	Developed Session Beans for the Business logic.
Exp	Involved in building the microservices in java Ecosystem including on self -Container and container less and in-container for the Edition of build of the application
Exp	Modified the Spring Controllers and Services classes to support the introduction of Spring framework.
Exp	Used Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collections to implement various features and enhancements.
Exp	Experience in front-end development using JSP, JSTL, Servlet, JavaScript, HTML5, XML, Bootstrap, Ajax and CSS3.
Exp	Developed user interface by using AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, JSP and HTML.
Exp	Developed modules to interact with other enterprise applications using Web services, SOAP and RESTFUL Web Services.
Exp	Developed several SOAPS based JAX-WS Web Service interfaces for integrating multiple systems, code re-usability.
Exp	Heavily used SOAP UI Pro version for testing the Web Services.
Exp	Handled Memory issues, application leak or WebLogic/Jboss leak or sun java bug by tuning and profiling the memory with third party tools.
Exp	Troubleshooting the issues that arise during production.
Exp	Involved in support for production environment and WebLogic/Jboss server hanging and server crash Issues.
Exp	Involved in tuning the heap size parameters and JVM's Garbage collector for WebLogic/Jboss.
Exp	Reviewed, analyzed and identify the recommendations relating to the Oracle ATG E-commerce Architecture and Design.
Exp	Implemented user stories related to a migration of initial and delta data from existing ecommerce solution to ATG.
Exp	Worked on Oracle ATG and Commerce reference applications (Merchandising, Personalization, B2C and B2B).
Exp	Customized solutions within ATG business control center and ATG commerce service center. Worked closely with test team on ATG specific defects. Worked closely with other ATG Service providers or implementers to meet the deadlines.
Exp	Worked on Oracle ATG CSC customizations, configured and set up Oracle ATG with custom catalogs.
Exp	Experience in Building Web Service Contracts in SOA Service Manager.
Exp	Worked on generating the web service classes by using WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, Spring-WS.
Exp	Developing dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap which is further integrated with Web Services.
Exp	Performed Angular JS Form Validation and Angular JS Form properties with ng-show and created a custom validation directive for comparing two input values
Exp	Using Bootstrap, CSS3 and media queries to create rich UI mobile and desktop Modules.
Exp	Worked on stored procedures, triggers and cursors, PL/SQL and SQL queries in Oracle 10g.
Exp	Created SQL queries for data manipulation using JDBC.
Exp	Extensively used Spring JDBC in data access layer to access and update
Exp	Used STS standard/plugin features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (Tortoise SVN).
Exp	Developed application architecture and customized framework using Spring, JSF and iBATIS.
Exp	Installed/Configured/Managed Jenkins CI Automation.
Exp	Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration process and entire application is developed and deployed on Tomcat server.
Exp	Worked with Terraform to create AWS components like EC2, IAM, VPC, ELB, Security groups.
Exp	Performed integration testing using Selenium Web driver.
Exp	Developed MAVEN scripts for compiling and deployment used Jenkins as Automation tool to move from one environment to another environment.
Exp	JIRA is used as ticket tracking, change management and Agile/SCRUM tool.
Exp	Build the application using Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.
Exp	Worked closely with QA team in resolving bugs, both in production release and current development version in resolving the defects.
Exp	Developed test cases through Test Driven Development(TDD) approach.
Exp	Writing unit tests using Jasmine with Karma.
Exp	Composed and executed Mongo DB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database, automating data changes and reporting.
Exp	Automate infrastructure in AWS utilizing amazon web services AWS. Deploy puppet to completely provision and manage AWS EC2 instances, volumes, DNS, and S3.
Exp	Implementing the Singleton Design Pattern for the entire creation of objects.
Exp	Environment:Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, XML, Bootstrap, Ajax, Java Beans,AWS,Jboss,JDBC, iBatis 2.2,Spring 4.0, SOAP, SOAP UI, Web services,LDAP,ATG 9.1/10.2/11, WSDL, PL/SQL, Oracle 12C, STS, SVN, Maven, IntelliJ IDE, Jenkins, Selenium, JIRA, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS,TDD, Jasmine and Karma.
Exp	GUIDEWIRE SOFTWARE, DUBLIN, IRELAND
Exp	DECEMBER 2011-APRIL 2013
Exp	MID – Level Java/J2EE Developer
Exp	Guidewire Software Focus on many services the section of job role was funds or credits to individuals with independent business requirements. Applicants get their loans sanctioned based on their credit history. The candidate data is kept up in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered into different categories based on parameters like type of account, loan amount, due date. The filtered data is used for statistics and generating reports
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Used AGILE SDLC methodology with scrum as a framework for requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing the application while upgrading the project.
Exp	Actively Involved in designing the outline of project, understanding of business necessities and interacted with other team members to understand the requirements for the project.
Exp	Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring(MVC)Framework and combined with ORM(Hibernate) framework.
Exp	Developed application modules using Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring Beans, Dependency Injection, with database interface using Hibernate.
Exp	Involved in the design and development of Batch Jobs using Spring Batch Architecture.
Exp	Developed ATG repositories using ATG object relational mapping framework which involved coding repository XMLs, mapping Oracle tables to Java Beans.
Exp	Used core Java concepts like multithread for environment to run the processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data
Exp	Used Multithreading to enable multiple operations to be performed simultaneously.
Exp	Experienced with Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.
Exp	Experience in Spring Security and Spring MVC frameworks, and Hibernate ORM framework.
Exp	Developed DAO's, java objects and used Hibernate as part of persistence layer.
Exp	Good knowledge on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), XML based protocols like WSDL and SOAP and implemented both SOAP and REST web services
Exp	Used Angular JS and jQuery library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.
Exp	Designed and implemented Java engine and API to perform direct calls from front-end JavaScript, Node.JS, AngularJS to server-side Java methods.
Exp	Setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Used Bootstrap library to quickly build project UI's and used AngularJS framework to associate HTML elements to models.
Exp	Used spring framework to inject the DAO and Bean objects and auto wiring the components.
Exp	Deployed Spring Boot based micro services and Docker container in internal cloud server.
Exp	Experienced with solid understanding of Micro Services.
Exp	Created and consumed Microservices based on Web API.
Exp	HTTP request from JSP and HTML pages controlling with that of Servlets.
Exp	Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality.
Exp	Worked on development of Hibernate to interact with the database including mapping files, configuration file and classes.
Exp	Generated POJO classes to map with the tables in the database using the Hibernate integration.
Exp	Implemented Spring Security for user authentication using Identity Access Management.
Exp	Developed LDAP server configuration file to enable encryption support for password storage.
Exp	Developed filters for user authentication and user authorization by using Servlets API.
Exp	Developed Web Services for data transfer from client to server and vice versa using Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI.
Exp	Implemented SOAP Web service using JAX-WS for retrieving financial information of policyholder and implemented web services concepts such as WS-Security using SSL, Handler such as SOAP.
Exp	Involved in developing RESTful Web Services with JAX-RS to provide functionality for future development.
Exp	Developed and consumed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS) for FTP between multiple applications as per the business life cycle.
Exp	Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.
Exp	Established connections with other applications by using Rabbit MQ and JMS to send messages from one application to other application internally.
Exp	Working experience with Rabbit MQ by connecting to the topic then fetching the messages and parsing the messages using multi-threading.
Exp	Wrote SQL Queries to interact with SQL Server Database.
Exp	Used SQL, HQL Queries in Java code to do CRUD operations depending upon the business necessity.
Exp	Writing Unix Shell Scripts to run batch jobs, Automated processes, and to automate routine systems administration tasks.
Exp	Developed PL/SQL Procedures & UNIX Scripts for Automation and running files in batch mode.
Exp	Worked on stored procedures, triggers and cursors, PL/SQL queries in Oracle 11g.
Exp	Excellent in deploying the applications in AWS as EC2 instances and created snapshots for the data that had to be stored in AWS S3.
Exp	Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.
Exp	Used Maven and Gradle to build the project and JUnit to develop unit test cases
Exp	Expertise in using JUNIT for Unit testing, Log4J for logging and debugging purposes and Version controller SVN to maintain code versions and documentation.
Exp	Good knowledge on UNIX commands, used to see the log files on the production server.
Exp	Used Putty to connect to the Unix Environment Servers and written the UNIX Shell Scripting for accessing the Server.
Exp	As part of the automation process used Selenium features like taking screenshots, Actions, handling frames, scrolling, alerts etc.
Exp	Work on Auto scaling, Cloud watch (monitoring), AWS Elastic Beanstalk (app
Exp	deployments), Amazon S3 (storage) and Amazon EBS (persistent disk storage).
Exp	Utilized Cloud watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon to design high availability applications on AWS across availability zones
Exp	Responsible in identifying defects in application using JProbe and Load Testing using JMeter.
Exp	JProfiler to profile the application before we release and for monitoring purpose.
Exp	Deployed the complete Web applications in WebSphere application Server.
Exp	Used Test-Driven Development methodology (TDD) to grow software capability and refractor into well-designed maintainable software.
Exp	Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJs, Node JS, Spring 3.1, Spring batch, Spring security, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Web services, Micro services, ATG 9.1, Hibernate 4.1, AWS, LDAP, XML, XSD, XSL, XSLT, WebSphere 8.5, Eclipse, SQL, HQL, Dom4j, Unix, SVN, Maven, Gradle, SOAP, Soap-UI 4.6, Pl/SQL, Oracle 11g, UNIX Shell Scripting, Putty, JUnit, Log4J, JMeter, JProfiler.
Exp	CULLIGENCE, BENGALURU, INDIA
Exp	APRIL 2009-AUGUST 2011
Exp	Java Developer
Exp	Online billing system (OBS) project provides enhancements to existing online billing application. OBS is a system, which basically provides many online features like displaying current bill, showing balance, due dates, history information and other stuff. OBS displays bills to customer in selected formats like pdf and html formats up to last 12 months and can download. OBS also contains provision to collect payment information, online order processing and payment processing.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Assisted in designing and programming for the system, which includes development of Process Flow Diagram, Entity Relationship Diagram, Data Flow Diagram and Database Design.
Exp	Involved in Transactions, login and Reporting modules, and customized report generation using Controllers, Testing and debugging the whole project for proper functionality and documenting modules developed.
Exp	Designed front-end components using JSF 1.2.
Exp	Involved in developing Java API, which communicates with the Enterprise Java Beans 2.0.
Exp	Implemented MVC architecture using JSF and JSTL 1.2 tag libraries.
Exp	Involved in development of classes and writing Hibernate query language (HQL) queries.
Exp	Implemented MVC architecture and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of the application and code reusability.
Exp	Worked on Tomcat server configurations set up, data sources, and queues set up and deploying the application.
Exp	Created Stored Procedures using SQL/PL-SQL for data modification.
Exp	Used XML 1.0, XSL for Data presentation, Report generation and customer feedback documents.
Exp	Used Java Beans to automate the generation of Dynamic Reports and for customer transactions.
Exp	Implemented Logging framework using Log4J.
Exp	Involved in code review and documentation review of technical artifacts.
Exp	Environment: J2EE/Java, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.5, JSF 1.2, Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSTL 1.2, EJB 2.0, XML 1.0, XSL, HTML, JavaScript 1.5, JDBC 3.1, Log4J, Oracle8i, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Windows.
Exp	PUBLISHED ARTICLES
Exp	Elastic Stream Computing: A Load Balance and Optimal Performance Approach.
Exp	-Published ACM Transactions on Graphics, Publication Date 2012.
Exp	Measuring the Network Performance and Examine the Behavior of Software Defined Networking Using Open Flow.
Exp	-Published IEEE Digital Library, Publication Date 2013.
Edu	EDUCATIONAL DOCUMENTS
Edu	MASTERS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE.
Edu	MARSHALL UNIVERISTY, HUNTINGTON, WEST VIRGINA.
Edu	JAN 2016-MAY 2017.
Edu	MASTERS IN MOBILE AND UBQUTIOUS COMPUTING,
Edu	TRINITY COLLEGE DIUBLIN, DUBLIN-02, IRELAND.
Edu	OCT 2011-DEC 2012.
Edu	BACHELORS OF ENGINERRING IN ELECTRONICS AND COMPUTERS,
Edu	KONERU LAKSHMAIAH UNIVERISTY, ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA.
Edu	SEP 2006 -APRIL2010.
Sum	SUMMARY
Sum	13 Years of total professional experience in IT industry, currently working as Project Manager in analysis, design and development of Client/Server applications and Commercial Applications software development in Business Intelligence/Data Warehousing domain
Sum	Excellent Technical skills on Business Objects reporting tool
Sum	Well-versed and expert on Business Objects 5.x, 6.x, XIR2, 3.1 & BO 4.0
Sum	Hands-on experience in creating Business Objects Universes & Reports
Sum	Certified Project Management Professional (PMP)
Sum	Excellent Project Management Skills, coordinating tasks between different teams for project’s successful closure
Sum	Well versed with Agile & Waterfall Project Management methodologies
Sum	6 Years of rich Onsite IT experience at client’s location in New Jersey, USA where customer focus was the key aspect
Sum	A proven verifiable track record and a strong sense of dedication driven towards accomplishing challenging goals with persistent commitment
Sum	Extensive experience in gathering Business Requirements, writing Technical Specifications and defining Version Control Processes, worked as Business Analyst / Onshore Coordinator in NJ
Sum	Lead a team size ranging from 2 to 20 resources, provided them with key information about the client and their business, reviewed code developed by the team
Sum	Handled successfully onshore-offshore coordination. Collected business requirements from the clients and communicated well to the offshore team
Sum	Worked as a bridge between different stakeholders to understand the requirements and cascade the same to the development team, excellent stakeholder’s management
Sum	Successfully organized and handled cross trainings within the project to ensure the knowledge is not lost if a certain resource is unavailable
Sum	Not shy of escalating important issues to the management for timely resolution
Sum	Adapts well to the changing environment
Sum	Experience in Pre-Sales domain and writing technical proposals
Sum	Good Experience in creating FRS, Project Plans and Estimations for projects
Sum	Worked as Assessment Team Member (ATM) with QAI for assessing CMMI Maturity Level 5
Sum	Working as Process Consultant for one of the projects I am managing
Sum	Excellent work ethics, self-motivated, quick learner, team player and good at multi-tasking
Sum	Strong problem solving, analytical, interpersonal and leadership skills
Skill	TECHNTECHNICAL SKILLS:
Skill	DWH technologies: OLAP
Skill	RDBMS: SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 R2, Oracle 8, 9i, 10g, Sybase IQ
Skill	Development/Productivity Tools: Adobe Acrobat, MS Office, ODBC, Visual Basic
Skill	E-Com Frameworks/Web Technologies: VBScripts
Skill	Programming Languages: SQL, Sybase IQ scripts
Exp	DWH Tools: Business Objects, CystalReports.com
Skill	Business Objects 5.x, 6.x, XIR2, XIR3.1, 4.0
Skill	Source Control: Visual Source Safe
Edu	EDUCATION:
Edu	Bachelor of Engineering – Electronics and Communication – 2002 – SRMS CET, Bareilly, India
Edu	PG in VLSI & System Programming from CDAC Noida, India, 2003-2004
QC	CERTIFICATION:
QC	Project Management Professional (PMP) – Project Management Institute
QC	PMP Number: 1693785
QC	PMP Expiration Date: February 6th 2020
Exp	Client – Sanofi, Somerset, NJ (September 2016 – till date)
Exp	Role\Designation: Project Manager
Exp	Project Description: Account Management Planner (AMP) Profiler-Web tool – (Sep 2016 – till date) – The Account Management Planner Profiler Tool is a web-based tool to provide the client’s Account Executives/Directors, Brand and Leadership with information necessary to influence strategic business planning would assist in increasing sales. Also, to influence important market driving parameters like current & new rebates, ramp-up time, clinical factors, financial factors etc. through which the key decision makers and Account Directors can analyze and attempt to positively impact the overall sale of a selected drug in each territory for a given PBM, Health plan.
Exp	Main objective is to automate the process of strategic business planning for Account Executive/Directors.
Exp	Ability for Account Directors, Key Decision Makers in generating accurate decision support triggers & reports
Exp	To provide the users with system based simulation model to generate program ROI
Exp	Technology: .Net Framwork 4.5, HTML5, CSS3, SQL Server 2014
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Project Management - Managing Enterprise software Solution Team of 25 resources to develop this MVC / .Net based platform product for the client
Exp	Requirement Gathering & Elicitation – Gather the requirements from the client and pass it on to the development team. Help them understand the requirements. Seek clarifications for any doubts/questions from the client
Exp	Agile Methodology – Agile project management methodology was adopted and I worked as Scrum master. I lead the daily scrum meetings and ensured that the sprint backlogs were all delivered on time
Exp	Daily Sprint Stand-up calls – I lead and managed the sprint calls for this project, ensured that the daily calls do not go for long and only quick status and important issues were discussed and sorted out during the calls
Exp	Stakeholder’s Management - Builds and maintains strong client relationships, and participates in client meetings regarding performance to ensure client satisfaction
Exp	Business Requirement Document – Created the Business Requirement Document which served as the go to document. This was signed-off by the client which made the basis for developing the project
Exp	Status Reporting – Managed the prompt and correct status reporting of the project. Apart from daily stand-up calls, circulated the weekly status report to the client for better tracking and monitoring of the project
Exp	Development & Testing – I lead the team during the development and testing phases as well. Helped the tem determine the best approach and did a lot of QA to support better quality deliverables
Exp	UAT & Bug-fixing – Supported the end users and development team during the UAT phase. Ensured that all the reported bugs are properly tracked, prioritized and assigned to the development team for fixing them
Exp	Cost & Schedule Monitoring – An important aspect of this project was to ensure that there is no Cost & Schedule variances. I used GANTT charts and Microsoft Project tools to monitor the Cost and Schedule. I ensured the team members track all their time in the timesheets and submits diligently every week
Exp	Risk Assessment & Mitigation – Worked with the relevant stakeholders to identify the risks, created Risk Register document and options to mitigate them
Exp	Go-Live/ Production Release – Helped the teams in Production Release. Made sure that the Release Notes are shared with all the relevant stakeholders. All the Concerned parties are available for the launch. Completed Smoke Testing after the launch to ensure that the Production environment is up and running fine as per the expectations
Exp	Performance Tuning of the system – Being a web application, it’s important to know the non-functional requirement of how should I system behave. Worked with the team to ensue database and front end have been developed and then fine-tuned for best performance
Exp	Handling of the Change Requests – There were some enhancement requests from the client which were taken up as a part of Change Request. I submitted the same to the Change Management which approved few of the work items which were later developed by the development team
Exp	Client – OKI Europe Limited, New Delhi, India (May 2015 – Aug 2016)
Exp	Role\Designation: Project Manager
Exp	Project Description: OKI Business Intelligence System – (May 2015 – Aug 2016) – This project is a development project and support project which involves building full-fledged Business Intelligence system - an enterprise data warehouse along with standard operational and analytics reports for top management. The enterprise data warehouse is being built for the client’s European market. The project involves working on Sales, Targets & Stocks data for the client.
Exp	Technology: OLAP, Business Objects 4.0, SQL Server 2008 R2
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Project Management – End to end Project management and leadership. Managing the BI development Team of 8 resources at onshore & offshore to develop Enterprise Business Intelligence System for the client
Exp	Requirement Gathering & Elicitation - Gather the requirements from the client and pass it on to the development team. Help them understand the requirements. Seek clarifications for any doubts/questions from the client
Exp	Waterfall Methodology – Worked on the waterfall project management methodology for this project. Ensured each of the different phases are signed-off before starting the next phase of the project
Exp	Stakeholder’s Management - Builds and maintains strong client relationships, and participates in client meetings regarding performance to ensure client satisfaction
Exp	Status Reporting – Managed the prompt and correct status reporting of the project. Apart from daily stand-up calls, circulated the weekly status report to the client for better tracking and monitoring of the project
Exp	Work Breakdown Structure & Estimation – Worked with the technical architect to design a solution and come up with the required estimates for the project. Shared the same with the client and got an approval. Created Work Break Down structure document for the development team to understand the requirements of the project
Exp	Capacity & Capability Planning – Based on the estimates approved, I worked on the capability and capacity planning. Ensured I get the right skillset of the resources required for the same duration based on timelines. Used skill matrix and resource calendar to monitor this activity
Exp	Resource Utilization – It was an important aspect of the project to ensure the resources are properly utilized
Exp	Development & Testing – I lead the team during the development and testing phases as well. Helped the tem determine the best approach and did a lot of QA to support better quality deliverables
Exp	UAT & Bug-fixing – Supported the end users and development team during the UAT phase. Ensured that all the reported bugs are properly tracked, prioritized and assigned to the development team for fixing them
Exp	Cost & Schedule Monitoring – An important aspect of this project was to ensure that there is no Cost & Schedule variances. I used GANTT charts and Microsoft Project tools to monitor the Cost and Schedule. I ensured the team members track all their time in the timesheets and submits diligently every week
Exp	Profitability Tracker – Monitored the cost and revenue of the project and timely submitted the profitability tracker. This is an important organization wide project manager’s responsibility
Exp	Risk Assessment & Mitigation – Worked with the relevant stakeholders to identify the risks, created Risk Register document and options to mitigate them
Exp	Go-Live/ Production Release – Helped the teams in Production Release. Made sure that the Release Notes are shared with all the relevant stakeholders. All the Concerned parties are available for the launch. Completed Smoke Testing after the launch to ensure that the Production environment is up and running fine as per the expectations
Exp	Handling of the Change Requests – There were some enhancement requests from the client which were taken up as a part of Change Request. I submitted the same to the Change Management which approved few of the work items which were later developed by the development team
Exp	Project Description: SDL Tridion Support Services – (Mar 2014 – Aug 2016) – This project is a Service support project and involves day to day support activities of OKI’s Web Content Management. OKI is using SDL Tridion to manage content for all their intranet and extranet websites. There are around 150 websites published for OKI using SDL Tridion. The website’s infrastructure is hosted with Rackspace.
Exp	Technology: SDL Tridion 5.3, Microsoft SQL Server 2005
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Project Management – End to end Project management and leadership. Manage and support this ongoing Support project for day to day activities, requests and cater to client’s satisfaction
Exp	Support of GWI Incident Management System – Open & Track all incidents and requests in GWI Incident Management system. Ensure GWI System is maintained and tracked on a daily basis. Seek clarifications for any doubts/questions from the client
Exp	Stakeholder’s Management - Builds and maintains strong client relationships, and participates in client meetings regarding performance to ensure client satisfaction
Exp	Status Reporting – Managed the prompt and correct status reporting of the project. Circulated the weekly & Monthly status report to the client for better tracking and monitoring of the project
Exp	Development & Testing – I lead the team during the development and testing phases as well. Helped the tem determine the best approach and did a lot of QA to support better quality deliverables
Exp	Capacity & Capability Planning – Based on the estimates approved, I worked on the capability and capacity planning. Ensured I get the right skillset of the resources required for the same duration based on timelines. Used skill matrix and resource calendar to monitor this activity
Exp	Resource Utilization – It was an important aspect of the project to ensure the resources are properly utilized
Exp	Cost & Schedule Monitoring – An important aspect of this project was to ensure that there is no Cost & Schedule variances. I used GANTT charts and Microsoft Project tools to monitor the Cost and Schedule. I ensured the team members track all their time in the timesheets and submits diligently every week
Exp	Profitability Tracker – Monitored the cost and revenue of the project and timely submitted the profitability tracker. This is an important organization wide project manager’s responsibility
Exp	Risk Assessment & Mitigation – Worked with the relevant stakeholders to identify the risks, created Risk Register document and options to mitigate them
Exp	Handling of the Change Requests – There were some enhancement requests from the client which were taken up as a part of Change Request. I submitted the same to the Change Management which approved few of the work items which were later developed by the development team
Exp	Client – Atmel Corporation – (July 2015 – February 2016)
Exp	Role\Designation: Project Manager
Exp	Client Description:
Exp	Atmel Corporation is a worldwide leader in the design and manufacture of microcontrollers, capacitive touch solutions, advanced logic, mixed-signal, nonvolatile memory and radio frequency (RF) components. Leveraging one of the industry's broadest intellectual property technology portfolios, Atmel provides the electronics industry with complete system solutions focused on industrial, consumer, security, communications, computing and automotive markets.
Exp	Project Description: SDL Tridion Technical Services – Website revamp – (Jul 2015 – Feb 2016) – This project is a development project which aims at redesign of Atmel.com’s web experience. The goal is to provide a guided, personalized, targeted and user-friendly navigation on Atmel.com website and have the Content Authors take more control on website updates, rather than the developers.
Exp	Technology: SDL Tridion 2013, HTML5
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Project Management
Exp	Requirement Gathering & Elicitation
Exp	Weekly calls with clients
Exp	Define Scope & Monitor
Exp	Estimation
Exp	Resource Utilization
Exp	Change Request Management
Exp	UAT & Bug-fixing
Exp	Support Go-Live/ Production Release
Exp	Client – Ministry of Health Holdings (MOHH), Singapore – (January 2015 – June 2015)
Exp	Role\Designation: Project Manager
Exp	Client Description:
Exp	MOHH (previously known as Health Corporation of Singapore) is the holding company of Singapore’s public healthcare assets. It operated largely as a dormant holding company until it was recently restructured to address systems-level gaps in our public healthcare system. MOHH today provides systems-level strategizing and coordination and facilitates collaboration across clusters/healthcare institutions. In doing so, it enhances overall public healthcare system performance, while ensuring closer alignment to MOH’s vision, mission and priorities. Where possible, MOHH also seeks to leverage on synergies and economies of scale across the entire healthcare spectrum, thereby enhancing operational efficiency of the public healthcare sector in the long run.
Exp	Project Description: Corporate Website Revamp – (Jan 2015 – Jun 2015) – This project is the Corporate Website revamp project for MOHH which is MOHH’s main public facing website. New site would be SEO optimized, performant site which would have modern look and feel, with Responsive Web Design and built using SharePoint 2013 Web Content Management features and would be hosted on a third party private cloud infrastructure within strict deadlines and adhering to MOHH corporate standards. Site is expected to have more than Hundred thousand of user base with different target users/stakeholders.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Project Management, Initiation & Planning
Exp	Requirement Gathering & Elicitation
Exp	Estimation of the project
Exp	Requirement Analysis & Design
Exp	Resource Alignment
Exp	Weekly check point meetings with the client
Exp	Handling the scope creep & gold plating
Exp	Unit testing by the team
Exp	UAT/bug fixing
Exp	Planning for Go-Live, Knowledge Transition and Documentation
Exp	Tracking of Cost/Revenue for the project
Exp	Production Release & Stabilization
Exp	Client – Singapore Sports Hub, Singapore – (March 2014 – September 2015)
Exp	Role\Designation: Project Manager
Exp	Client Description:
Exp	The Singapore Sports Hub is a Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) project where the Sports Hub consortium has a 25-year contract with the Singapore Sports Council to design, build, finance and operate the Sports Hub. The private sector Sports Hub consortium includes four equity partners:
Exp	InfraRed Capital Partners
Exp	Dragages Singapore (also the Design & Building Contractor)
Exp	Cushman & Wakefield (also the Facility Management Partner)
Exp	Global Spectrum Asia (also the Venue Operations Partner)
Exp	Project Description: Support & Maintenance of BIS Applications – (Mar 2014 – Sep 2015) – The project involves support and maintenance of BIS application for Singapore Sports Hub to manage applications such as ERP, CRM, Portal, Biztalk, BI, Kiosk & Mobile apps. The Technologies supporting these applications were MS Dynamics CRM, Sharepoint 2010, Dynamics AX 2012, 2011, SSIS, SSRS, SQL Server
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Project Management
Exp	Requirement Analysis & Design
Exp	Resource Alignment
Exp	Weekly check point meetings with the client
Exp	Ticket assignment and Resolution
Exp	Change Requests Estimation, Approval and Development
Exp	Tracking of Cost/Revenue for the project
Exp	Production Release & Stabilization
Exp	Client – Sinclair Knight Merz (June 2013 – February 2014)
Exp	Role\Designation: Project Leader
Exp	Client Description:
Exp	Sinclair Knight Merz (SKM) is a leading projects firm, with global capability in strategic consulting, engineering and project delivery. It operates across Asia Pacific, the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, deploying some 7,500 people from more than 40 offices.
Exp	Project Description: Support for Insight (financial reporting portal) system – (Jun 2013 – Feb 2014) – SKM has set up SAP Business Objects (BO XI3.1) environment called “INSIGHT” to monitor and manage the performance of its diverse operating units. Insight is the financial reporting portal for SKM. It delivers relevant information to assist with decision making at executive, operational and client manager levels. The need was to establish an offshore support team to engage in SAP admin and SAP report development support.
Exp	Technology: OLAP, Business Objects XI 3.1, SQL Server 2008 R2
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development
Exp	Developed Universes and Reports using Business Objects
Exp	Setup weekly calls with users to go through the project status and understand their business requirements. Setup daily calls with the onshore team
Exp	Successfully handled many adhoc change requests from the client
Exp	Unit testing of the team’s universes/reports
Exp	Successfully handled all the changes and the bugs reported by the client in the UAT phase
Exp	Coordinated and communicated well between the client and the offshore team to ensure that the requirements are understood properly and project is delivered on time.
Exp	Handed the project to the support team by giving them proper transition of knowledge and all documentation.
Exp	Client – Citi Group, NJ, USA – (February 2013 – June 2013)
Exp	Role\Designation: Technical Leader
Exp	Client Description:
Exp	Citi, the leading global bank, has approximately 200 million customer accounts and does business in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. Citi provides consumers, corporations, governments and institutions with a broad range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services, and wealth management.
Exp	Project Description: Implementation of reporting environment for Internal Finance Department (Feb 2013 – Jun 2013) – Citi has a huge Financial business which needs to be monitored and analyzed daily. The project involved enhancing the internal financial reporting system to help the users in their day to day activities.
Exp	Technology: OLAP, Business Objects XI 3.1, Oracle 10g.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Project Management, Estimation of new report development
Exp	This project is developed using Agile and Scrum methodology
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development
Exp	Created Business Requirement Document & Functional Requirement Specification
Exp	Developed Estimates and Project Plan single handedly for the complete project
Exp	Handled Resource Allocation as per the required skill set
Exp	Developed/Enhanced Universes and Reports using Business Objects
Exp	Successfully handled many adhoc change requests from the client
Exp	Unit testing own code and that of other developers
Exp	Successfully handled all the changes and the bugs reported by the client in the UAT phase
Exp	Coordinated and communicated well between the client and the offshore team to ensure that the requirements are understood properly and project is delivered on time
Exp	Using the Import Wizard tool deployed the universes and reports from the development environment to the production environment
Exp	Client – Dun & Bradstreet, NJ, USA– (April 2004 – January 2013)
Exp	Role\Designation: Technical Lead / Onsite Coordinator
Exp	Client Description:
Exp	D&B is the world’s leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence® for 167 years. D&B’s global commercial database contains more than 140 million business records. This application was an enhancement of the intranet website of D&B. Everything on this website is data driven, nothing is static.
Exp	Project Description: Implementation of reporting environment for International Markets (Nov 2009 – Jan 2013) – D&B has implemented Oracle E-Business Suites - Account Receivables, Account Payables and General Ledger in Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Japan was the 1st of International market on Oracle E Business suites of version 12.
Exp	Technology: OLAP, Business Objects XI 3.1, Oracle 10g.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development. Created the Functional Requirement Specification.
Exp	Developed Estimates and Project Plan single handedly for the complete project.
Exp	Handled Resource Allocation as per the required skill set.
Exp	Created Business Requirement Document & Functional Requirement Specification
Exp	Setup weekly calls with Japan users to go through the project status and understand their business requirements. Setup daily calls with the offshore team in India.
Exp	This project is developed using Agile and Scrum methodology.
Exp	Developed Universes and Reports using Business Objects.
Exp	Used Visual Source Safe to maintain code and documentation versions.
Exp	Successfully handled many adhoc change requests from the client.
Exp	Unit testing own code and that of other developers.
Exp	Successfully handled all the changes and the bugs reported by the client in the UAT phase.
Exp	Coordinated and communicated well between the client and the offshore team to ensure that the requirements are understood properly and project is delivered on time.
Exp	Using the Import Wizard tool deployed the universes and reports from the development environment to the production environment.
Exp	Handed the project to the support team by giving them proper transition of knowledge and all documentation.
Exp	Set up 5 users and allocated them proper rights to view and refresh the canned reports using Central Management Console.
Exp	Project Description: Implementation of Portfolio Risk Manager Module (Jul 2011 – Dec 2011) – D&B planned to remove the grace period access to the contracts which were not renewed and to inform their customers if the contract needs to be renewed for ‘DnBi Professional’ contract type. The other objective of this project being was to introduce “Trials” for the DnBi Professional and PRM at the module level.
Exp	Technology: OLAP, Business Objects XI 3.1, Sybase IQ 12
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development. Created the Functional Requirement Specification.
Exp	Developed Estimates and Project Plan for the BO/IQ piece of the project.
Exp	Handled Resource Allocation as per the required skill set.
Exp	Setup weekly calls with users to go through the project status and understand the business requirements. Setup daily calls with the offshore team in India.
Exp	Modified BO Universe and created the Trial Balance Report.
Exp	Used Visual Source Safe to maintain code and documentation versions.
Exp	Successfully handled many adhoc change requests from the client.
Exp	Unit testing of the code from the team.
Exp	Successfully handled all the changes and the bugs reported by the client in the UAT phase.
Exp	Coordinated and communicated well between the client and the offshore team to ensure that the requirements are understood properly and project is delivered on time.
Exp	Using the Import Wizard tool deployed the universes and reports from the development environment to the production environment.
Exp	Handed the project to the support team by giving them proper transition of knowledge and all documentation.
Exp	Project Description: Run the Business (RTB) (Jan 2009 – Jun 2011) – This is the maintenance and support project where in day to day analysis and decision making reports are developed and maintained for D&B users and their customers. The reporting is done for revenue and sales data for D&B's businesses. The reporting is done using Business Objects. There are close to 500 business object users across D&B who use the tool for adhoc and canned reports.
Exp	Technology: OLAP, Business Objects, Sybase IQ, SQL Server 2005, Oracle 10g.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development. Created the high-level design and architecture.
Exp	Developed Universes and Reports using Business Objects.
Exp	Handled successfully onshore-offshore coordination. Took proper requirements from the clients and communicated well to the offshore team and got the work delivered on time.
Exp	Used Report Conversion Tool to convert Desktop Intelligence reports into Web Intelligence reports.
Exp	Used Import Wizard to deploy universes and reports from development environment to production environment.
Exp	Used Visual Source Safe to maintain code and documentation versions.
Exp	Extensively used Central Management Console for administrative purpose. Created Universe folders, users, groups and assigned proper privileges.
Exp	Created DeskI and WebI reports using Desktop Intelligence and Infoview respectively.
Exp	Scheduled reports using Infoview and created events in CMC to trigger the reports.
Exp	Developed Macros using Visual Basic to convert BO output into Excel and text format. Macros helped in creating the format as per the user requirement.
Exp	Set up weekly calls with the client manager in D&B to discuss the day to day activities.
Exp	Fixed bugs reported by the business users.
Exp	Participated in team discussions for clear understanding of requirements with the client manager and team members.
Exp	Created Estimates and project plan for the project. Also, created estimates for the change requests reported by the client.
Exp	Developed Functional Requirement Specification for the project and got a client sign off for the same.
Exp	Successfully handled many adhoc change requests from the client.
Exp	Unit testing own code and that of other developers.
Exp	Project Description: Implementing Oracle Suites (AR, AP, GL) in UK and Ireland – (Jan 2008 – Dec 2008) – This project was initiated to create a reporting structure in UK and Ireland from scratch. The business proposed new oracle suites in UK and Ireland and business objects were chosen to get the reporting done out of it.
Exp	Technology: Business Objects XIR2 (Web Intelligence, Desktop Intelligence, CMC, Designer, Publisher), Oracle 9i, SQL, PL/SQL, TOAD7.6.
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Designed the universes and reports for team and attended tele-conferences to guide the team for the development of these universes and reports.
Exp	Involved in creation, implementation and maintenance of universes, classes and objects as per the report requirements using Business Objects XIR2 suite.
Exp	Set Cardinalities and Joins to develop the universe and created Aliases and Contexts to resolve the linking problems like Loops and Traps (Chasm and Fan) and checked the Integrity of the Universes.
Exp	Created Hierarchies, complex objects using various @ functions, Aliases, Contexts, Aggregate objects in the universe.
Exp	Worked extensively with the major functionality of Web Intelligence like Breaks, Alerter, Filters, Sorts, Query Prompts and Drill filters.
Exp	Created, managed and formatted standard reports, master/detail reports and cross tab reports using Report Manager.
Exp	Used the Slice and Dice feature, set variables, alerts and group values in the reports.
Exp	Used the Drill Down/up function to analyze data and created multiple charts in Reports.
Exp	Created Report Templates for consistency in the look and feel of the reports.
Exp	Used SQL Loader to load flat files into oracle database.
Exp	Used TOAD to verify data and performance of the report.
Exp	Project Description: HRCC BO Globalization Implementation Phase II (Jul 2007 – Dec 2007) – This application was an enhancement on Phase I and it included creation of many reports and universe modification. It included standardizing the universe based on best practices.
Exp	Technology: Business Objects, Oracle 9i, OLAP
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development.
Exp	Classes and Objects in the universe were given more business oriented names.
Exp	Objects which were not used were removed from the classes.
Exp	Visual Basic Macros were used to format the reports in a set manner which was requested by the business owners.
Exp	Developed Universes and Reports using Business Objects
Exp	Handled successfully onshore-offshore coordination. Took proper requirements from the clients and communicated well to the offshore team and got the work delivered on time
Exp	Import Wizard to deploy universes and reports from development environment to production environment
Exp	Used Visual Source Safe to maintain code and documentation versions
Exp	Successfully handled many adhoc change requests from the client.
Exp	Unit testing own code and that of other developers
Exp	Project Description: HRCC BO Globalization Implementation Phase I (Dec 2006 – Jun 2007) – This application is used to implement the Global reporting for HRCC in Business Objects and to provide associate details throughout the globe in D&B. This application also included building BO universe and reports based on the requirement with the security features for D&B’s Human Resource Management System.
Exp	Technology: Business Objects, Oracle 9i
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development.
Exp	Developed Universes and Reports using Business Objects
Exp	Handled successfully onshore-offshore coordination. Took proper requirements from the clients and communicated well to the offshore team and got the work delivered on time
Exp	Import Wizard to deploy universes and reports from development environment to production environment
Exp	Used Visual Source Safe to maintain code and documentation versions
Exp	Successfully handled many adhoc change requests from the client.
Exp	Unit testing own code and that of other developers
Exp	Project Description: BO XI Migration (Jun 2006 – Nov 2006) – The purpose of this application was to migrate from BO 5.X to BO XI R2.
Exp	Technology: Business Objects, Sybase IQ, Oracle, SQL Server
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development.
Exp	To analyze the impact and help in migrating to BO XI R2
Exp	Created Inventory of User Reports for migration.
Exp	Migrated Universes, User Reports and Scheduled Reports.
Exp	Setup security in Central Management Console.
Exp	Handled successfully onshore-offshore coordination.
Exp	Import Wizard to deploy universes and reports from development environment to production environment
Exp	Used Visual Source Safe to maintain code and documentation versions
Exp	Unit testing own code and that of other developers
Exp	Project Description: Top 10 Customers and DnBI Pricing (May 2005 – May 2006) – The purpose of this project was to create the top 10 DnB’s customers and do the reporting on the DnBI Pricing
Exp	Technology: Business Objects, Sybase IQ
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development.
Exp	To understand the new DnBi product and its pricing criteria
Exp	To analyze the impact of this new product on the existing reports
Exp	To modify the existing universes to include this new DnBi product
Exp	Setup security in Central Management Console for the new users
Exp	Handled successfully onshore-offshore coordination.
Exp	Import Wizard to deploy universes and reports from development environment to production environment
Exp	Used Visual Source Safe to maintain code and documentation versions
Exp	Project Description: Preferred Pricing Phase-2 (Jul 2004 – Apr 2005) – The purpose of this project was to enhance the features of the preferred Pricing plan for D&B
Exp	Technology: Business Objects, Sybase IQ, Oracle, SQL Server, Adobe Acrobat, MS Office, ODBC, PL/SQL, OLAP
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Requirement analysis, Design and Development.
Exp	Setup security in Central Management Console.
Exp	Handled successfully onshore-offshore coordination.
Exp	Import Wizard to deploy universes and reports from development environment to production environment
Exp	Used Visual Source Safe to maintain code and documentation versions
Exp	Unit testing own code and that of other developers
Exp	Project Description: Preferred Pricing Phase-1 (Jan 2004 – Jun 2004) – The purpose of this project was to design and automate the back-office of the Preferred Pricing Plan program (PPP) based on the program criteria, including a new offer template type, usage statements & invoices.
Exp	Technology: Business Objects, Sybase IQ, Adobe Acrobat, MS Office, ODBC, PL/SQL, OLAP, Corporate
Exp	Responsibilities:
Exp	Worked with technical team to ensure, to adhere and to co-operate the policies and procedures pertaining to the Database.
Exp	Included development of policies to control the movement of application on to a Production Database.
Exp	Monitoring the growth of Database to ensure smooth functioning of daily activities.
Exp	Establishing the base lines and compares the Database performance against them to ensure adequate performance
PI	Anudeep
PI	Sr Java Programmer